'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License. When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with
.\" the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH libusb 3LIB "19 May 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "Interface Libraries"
.SH NAME
libusb \- user-space USB device management library
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fB-I\fR/usr/include \fIfile\fR... \fB-L\fR/usr/lib \e
     \fB -R \fR/usr/lib \fB -lusb \fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <usb.h>
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBlibusb\fR library contains interfaces for managing USB devices without a kernel driver.  It is an open-source API supported on Linux, MacOS X, and NetBSD. See http://libusb.sourceforge.net.
.sp
.LP
The current implementation is version 0.1.8 of the \fBlibusb\fR API.
.sp
.LP
Complete documentation for this library can be found at \fB/usr/share/doc/libusb/libusb.txt\fR.
.SH INTERFACES
.sp
.LP
The shared object \fBlibusb.so.1\fR provides the following public interfaces. See \fBIntro\fR(3) for additional information on shared object interfaces.
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab();
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) 
.
\fBusb_bulk_read\fR\fBusb_bulk_write\fR
\fBusb_claim_interface\fR\fBusb_clear_halt\fR
\fBusb_close\fR\fBusb_control_msg\fR
\fBusb_find_busses\fR\fBusb_find_devices\fR
\fBusb_get_busses\fR\fBusb_get_descriptor_by_endpoint\fR
\fBusb_get_descriptor\fR\fBusb_get_string\fR
\fBusb_get_string_simple\fR\fBusb_init\fR
\fBusb_interrupt_read\fR\fBusb_interrupt_write\fR
\fBusb_open\fR\fBusb_release_interface\fR
\fBusb_reset\fR\fBusb_resetep\fR
\fBusb_set_altinterface\fR\fBusb_set_configuration\fR
\fBusb_set_debug\fR\fBusb_strerror\fR
.TE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/libusb.so.1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  
shared object
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/64/libusb.so.1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  
64-bit shared object
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/usr/libusb_plugins\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  
implementation-specific \fBlibusb\fR modules
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/usr/bin/libusb-config\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  
script to determine linking environment
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWlibusb, SUNWlibusbut, SUNWlibugenusb
_
Interface StabilityExternal
_
MT-LevelUnsafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBIntro\fR(3), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
http://libusb.sourceforge.net
