'\" te
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH echo 1F "5 Jul 1990" "SunOS 5.11" "FMLI Commands"
.SH NAME
echo \- put string on virtual output
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBecho\fR [\fIstring\fR]...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBecho\fR function directs each string it is passed to the standard output. If no argument is given, \fBecho\fR looks to the standard input for input. It is often used in conditional execution or for passing a string to another command.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRA sample of the \fBecho\fR command.
.sp
.LP
Set the \fBdone\fR descriptor to \fBhelp\fR if a test fails:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBdone=`if [ -s $F1 ];
	then echo close;
	else echo help;
	fi`\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) 
.
\fBATTRIBUTE TYPE\fR\fBATTRIBUTE VALUE\fR
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBecho\fR(1), \fBattributes\fR(5)   
