'\" te
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1990, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" 1990, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH fmlexpr 1F "5 Jul 1990" "SunOS 5.11" "FMLI Commands"
.SH NAME
fmlexpr \- evaluate arguments as an expression
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBfmlexpr\fR \fIarguments\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBfmlexpr\fR function evaluates its arguments as an expression. After evaluation, the result is written on the standard output. Terms of the expression must be separated by blanks. Characters special to \fBFMLI\fR must be escaped. Note that  \fB30\fR is returned to indicate a zero value, rather than the null string. Strings containing blanks or other special characters should be quoted. Integer-valued arguments may be preceded by a unary minus sign. Internally, integers are treated as 32-bit, 2s complement numbers.
.sp
.LP
The operators and keywords are listed below. Characters that need to be escaped are preceded by \fB\e\fR\&. The list is in order of increasing precedence, with equal precedence operators grouped within \fB{\|}\fR symbols.
.SH USAGE
.SS "Expressions"
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIexpr \fR\fB\e|\fR\fI expr\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Returns the first \fBexpr\fR if it is neither  \fINULL\fR nor \fB0\fR, otherwise returns the second \fBexpr\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIexpr \fR\fB\e&\fR\fI expr\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Returns the first \fBexpr\fR if neither \fBexpr\fR is  \fINULL\fR or \fB0\fR, otherwise returns \fB0\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIexpr \fR{ \fB=\fR, \fB\e>, \e>=\fR, \fB\e<, \e<=\fR, \fB!=\fR } \fBexpr\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Returns the result of an integer comparison if both arguments are integers, otherwise returns the result of a lexical comparison.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIexpr \fR{ \fB+, \(mi\fR } \fBexpr\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Addition or subtraction of integer-valued arguments.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIexpr \fR{ \fB*, /, %\fR } \fBexpr\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Multiplication, division, or remainder of the integer-valued arguments.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBexpr\fR\fB : \fR\fBexpr\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The matching operator \fB:\fR (colon) compares the first argument with the second argument which must be a regular expression. Regular expression syntax is the same as that of \fBed\fR(1), except that all patterns are "anchored" (that is, begin with \fB^\fR) and, therefore, \fB^\fR is not a special character, in that context. Normally, the matching operator returns the number of bytes matched (\fB0\fR on failure). Alternatively, the \fB(\|.\|.\|.\|)\fR pattern symbols can be used to return a portion of the first argument.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRIncrementing a variable
.sp
.LP
Add \fB1\fR to the variable \fBa\fR:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBfmlexpr\| $a\| +\| 1 | set \fR\fB-l\fR\fB a\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fRSetting a variable equal to a filename
.sp
.LP
For \fB$a\fR equal to either \fB/usr/abc/file\fR or just \fBfile\fR:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBfmlexpr  $a  :   .*/\e(.*\e)  \e|  $a\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
returns the last segment of a path name (that is, \fBfile\fR). Watch out for \fB/\fR alone as an argument: \fBfmlexpr\fR will take it as the division operator (see \fBNOTES\fR below).

.LP
\fBExample 3 \fRA better representation of Example 2
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBfmlexpr  //$a  :  .*/\e(.*\e)\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The addition of the \fB//\fR characters eliminates any ambiguity about the division operator (because it makes it impossible for the left-hand expression to be interpreted as the division operator), and simplifies the whole expression.

.LP
\fBExample 4 \fRCounting characters in a variable
.sp
.LP
Return the number of characters in \fB$VAR:\fR

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBfmlexpr $VAR : .*\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
As a side effect of expression evaluation, \fBfmlexpr\fR returns the following exit values:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt  
if the expression is neither \fINULL\fR nor \fB0\fR (that is, TRUE)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt  
if the expression \fIis\fR \fINULL\fR or \fB0\fR (that is, FALSE)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB2\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt  
for invalid expressions (that is, FALSE).
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
\fBATTRIBUTE TYPE\fR\fBATTRIBUTE VALUE\fR
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBed\fR(1), \fBexpr\fR(1), \fBset\fR(1F), \fBsh\fR(1), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBsyntax error\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt  
for operator/operand errors
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBnon-numeric argument\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt  
if arithmetic is attempted on such a string
.RE

.sp
.LP
In the case of syntax errors and non-numeric arguments, an error message will be printed at the current cursor position. Use \fBrefresh\fR to redraw the screen.
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
After argument processing by \fBFMLI,\fR \fBfmlexpr\fR cannot tell the difference between an operator and an operand except by the value. If \fB$a\fR is an \fB=\fR, the command:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBfmlexpr $a = =\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
looks like:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBfmlexpr = = =\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
as the arguments are passed to \fBfmlexpr\fR (and they will all be taken as the \fB=\fR operator). The following works, and returns TRUE:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBfmlexpr X$a = X=\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

