'\" te
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH getitems 1F "5 Jul 1990" "SunOS 5.11" "FMLI Commands"
.SH NAME
getitems \- returns a list of currently marked menu items
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBgetitems\fR [\fIdelimiter_string\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBgetitems\fR function returns the value of \fBlininfo\fR if defined, else it returns the value of the \fBname\fR descriptor, for all currently marked menu items. Each value in the list is delimited by \fIdelimiter_string\fR. The default value of \fIdelimiter_string\fR is newline.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRA sample output of \fBgetitems\fR command.
.sp
.LP
The \fBdone\fR descriptor in the following menu definition file executes \fBgetitems\fR when the user presses  \fBENTER\fR (note that the menu is multiselect):

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBMenu="Example"
multiselect=TRUE
done=`getitems ":" | message`
name="Item 1"
action=`message "You selected item 1"`
name="Item 2"
lininfo="This is item 2"
action=`message "You selected item 2"`
name="Item 3"
action=`message "You selected item 3"`\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
If a user marked all three items in this menu, pressing  \fBENTER\fR would cause the following string to be displayed on the message line:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBItem 1:This is item 2:Item 3\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Because \fBlininfo\fR is defined for the second menu item, its value is displayed instead of the value of the \fBname\fR descriptor.   
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBattributes\fR(5)
