'\" te
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH pathconv 1F "5 Jul 1990" "SunOS 5.11" "FMLI Commands"
.SH NAME
pathconv \- search FMLI criteria for filename
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBpathconv\fR [\fB-f\fR] [\fB-v\fR \fIalias\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBpathconv\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-l\fR] [\fB-n\fR\fInum\fR] [\fB-v\fR \fIstring\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBpathconv\fR function converts an alias to its pathname. By default, it takes the alias as a string from the standard input.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
If \fB-f\fR is specified, the full path will be returned (this is the default).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
If \fB-t\fR is specified, \fBpathconv\fR will truncate a pathname specified in \fIstring\fR in a format suitable for display as a frame title. This format is a shortened version of the full pathname, created by deleting components of the path from the middle of the string until it is under \fBDISPLAYW\fR \(em 6 characters in length, and then inserting ellipses ( \fB\&.\|.\|.\fR ) between the remaining pieces. Ellipses are also used to show truncation at the ends of the strings if necessary, unless the \fB-l\fR option is given.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
If \fB-l\fR is specified, \fB<\fR and \fB>\fR will be used instead of ellipses ( \fB\&.\|.\|.\fR ) to indicate truncation at the ends of the string generated by the \fB-t\fR option. Using \fB-l\fR allows display of the longest possible string while still notifying users it has been truncated.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-n\fR\fInum\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
If \fB-n\fR is specified, \fInum\fR is the maximum length of the string (in characters) generated by the \fB-t\fR option. The argument \fInum\fR can be any integer from 1 to 255.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-v\fR\fBalias\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
|\|\fIstring\fR If the \fB-v\fR option is used, then \fBalias\fR or \fIstring\fR can be specified when \fBpathconv\fR is called. The argument \fBalias\fR must be an alias defined in the \fIalias_file\fR named when \fBfmli\fR was invoked. The argument \fIstring\fR can only be used with the \fB-t\fR option and must be a pathname.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRA sample that uses \fBpathconv\fR to construct the menu title. It searches for \fBMY\fR\fBPATH\fR in the \fIalias_file\fR named when \fBfmli\fR command.
.sp
.LP
Here is a menu descriptor that uses \fBpathconv\fR to construct the menu title. It searches for \fBMY\fR\fBPATH\fR in the \fIalias_file\fR named when \fBfmli\fR was invoked:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBmenu=`pathconv \fR\fB-v\fR\fB MYPATH/ls`
   .
   .
   .\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
where there is a line in \fIalias_file\fR that defines \fBMY\fR\fBPATH\fR \&. For example, \fBMY\fR\fBPATH\fR\fB=$\fR\fBHOME\fR\fB/bin:/usr/bin\fR.

.sp
.LP
Here is a menu descriptor that takes \fBalias\fR from the standard input.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBmenu=`echo MYPATH/ls | pathconv`
   .
   .
   .\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBfmli\fR(1), \fBattributes\fR(5)  
