'\" te
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\"  Copyright (c) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH run 1F "7 Nov 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "FMLI Commands"
.SH NAME
run \- run an executable
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBrun\fR [\fB-s\fR] [\fB-e\fR] [\fB-n\fR] [\fB-t\fR \fIstring\fR] \fIprogram\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBrun\fR command runs \fIprogram\fR, using the \fBPATH\fR variable to find it. By default, when \fIprogram\fR has completed, the user is prompted (\fBPress ENTER to continue:\fR), before being returned to \fBFMLI\fR. The argument \fIprogram\fR is a system executable followed by its options (if any).
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-e\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt  
If \fB-e\fR is specified, the user is prompted before returning to \fBFMLI\fR only if there is an error condition
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-n\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt  
If \fB-n\fR is specified, the user is never prompted before returning to \fBFMLI\fR (useful for programs like \fBvi\fR, in which the user must do some specific action to exit in the first place).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt  
The \fB-s\fR option means "silent", implying that the screen does not have to be repainted when \fIprogram\fR has completed. The \fB-s\fR option should only be used when \fIprogram\fR does not write to the terminal. In addition, when \fB-s\fR is used, \fIprogram\fR cannot be interrupted, even if it recognizes interrupts.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR\fIstring\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt  
If \fB-t\fR is specified, \fIstring\fR is the name this process has in the pop-up menu generated by the \fBfrm-list\fR command. 
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRSample Output of the \fBrun\fR Command
.sp
.LP
Here is a menu that uses \fBrun\fR:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBmenu="Edit special System files"
name="Password file"
action=`run -e vi /etc/passwd`
name="Group file"
action=`run -e vi /etc/group`
name="My .profile"
action=`run -n vi $HOME/.profile`\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBattributes\fR(5)
