'\" te
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH set 1F "5 Jul 1990" "SunOS 5.11" "FMLI Commands"
.SH NAME
set, unset \- set and unset local or global environment variables
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBset\fR [\fB-l\fR \fIvariable\fR [=\fIvalue\fR]] ...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBset\fR [\fB-e\fR \fIvariable\fR [=\fIvalue\fR]] ...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBset\fR [\fB-f\fR\fIfile\fR \fIvariable\fR [=\fIvalue\fR]]... ...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBunset\fR \fB-l\fR \fIvariable\fR...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBunset\fR \fB-f\fR \fIfile\fR \fIvariable\fR...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBset\fR command sets \fIvariable\fR in the environment, or adds \fIvariable\fR\fB=\fR\fIvalue\fR to \fBfile\fR. If \fIvariable\fR is not equated it to a value, \fBset\fR expects the value to be on \fIstdin\fR. The \fBunset\fR command removes \fIvariable\fR. Note that the FMLI predefined, read-only variables (such as \fBARG1\fR), may not be set or unset.
.sp
.LP
Note that at least one of the above options must be used for each variable being set or unset. If you set a variable with the \fB-f\fR\fIfilename\fR option, you must thereafter include \fIfilename\fR in references to that variable. For example, \fB${(\fR\fBfile\fR\fB)\fR\fIVARIABLE\fR\fB}\fR.
.sp
.LP
FMLI inherits the UNIX environment when invoked.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
Sets or unsets the specified variable in the local environment. Variables set with \fB-l\fR will not be inherited by processes invoked from FMLI.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-e\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
Sets the specified variable in the UNIX environment. Variables set with \fB-e\fR will be inherited by any processes started from FMLI. Note that these variables cannot be \fBunset.\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR\fBfile\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
Sets or unsets the specified variable in the global environment. The argument \fBfile\fR is the name, or pathname, of a file containing lines of the form \fIvariable\fR\fB=\fR\fIvalue\fR. \fBfile\fR will be created if it does not already exist. Note that no space intervenes between \fB-f\fR and \fBfile\fR.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRA sample output of \fBset\fR command.
.sp
.LP
Storing a selection made in a menu:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBname=Selection 2
action=`set \fR\fB-l\fR\fB SELECTION=2`close\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Variables set to be available to the UNIX environment (those set using the \fB-e\fR option) can only be set for the current fmli process and the processes it calls.
.sp
.LP
When using the \fB-f\fR option, unless \fBfile\fR is unique to the process, other users of FMLI on the same machine will be able to expand these variables, depending on the read/write permissions on \fBfile\fR.
.sp
.LP
A variable set in one frame may be referenced or unset in any other frame. This includes local variables.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBenv\fR(1), \fBsh\fR(1), \fBattributes\fR(5)  
