'\" te
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH setcolor 1F "5 Jul 1990" "SunOS 5.11" "FMLI Commands"
.SH NAME
setcolor \- redefine or create a color
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBsetcolor\fR \fIcolor\fR \fIred_level\fR \fIgreen_level\fR \fIblue_level\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBsetcolor\fR command takes four arguments: \fIcolor\fR, which must be a string naming the color; and the arguments \fIred_level\fR, \fIgreen_level\fR, and \fIblue_level\fR, which must be integer values defining, respectively, the intensity of the red, green, and blue components of \fIcolor\fR. Intensities must be in the range of 0 to 1000. If you are redefining an existing color, you must use its current name (default color names are: \fBblack\fR, \fBblue\fR, \fBgreen\fR, \fBcyan\fR, \fBred\fR, \fBmagenta\fR, \fByellow\fR, and \fBwhite\fR). \fBsetcolor\fR returns the color's name string.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRA sample output of \fBsetcolor\fR command.
.sp
.LP
The following is an example of the arguments that \fBsetcolor\fR takes:

.sp
.LP
\fB`setcolor blue 100 24 300`\fR

.sp
.LP
BUILT-IN FMLI

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBattributes\fR(5)
