'\" te
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH shell 1F "5 Jul 1990" "SunOS 5.11" "FMLI Commands"
.SH NAME
shell \- run a command using shell
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBshell\fR \fIcommand\fR [\fIcommand\fR] ...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBshell\fR function concatenate its arguments, separating each by a space, and passes this string to the shell (\fB$SHELL\fR if set, otherwise \fB/usr/bin/sh\fR).
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRA sample output of \fBshell\fR command.
.sp
.LP
Since the Form and Menu Language does not directly support background processing, the \fBshell\fR function can be used instead.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fB`shell "build prog > /dev/null &"`\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
If you want the user to continue to be able to interact with the application while the background job is running, the output of an executable run by \fBshell\fR in the background must be redirected: to a file if you want to save the output, or to \fB/dev/null\fR if you don't want to save it (or if there is no output), otherwise your application may appear to be hung until the background job finishes processing.

.sp
.LP
\fBshell\fR can also be used to execute a command that has the same name as an FMLI built-in function.

.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The arguments to \fBshell\fR will be concatenate using spaces, which may or may not do what is expected. The variables set in local environments will not be expanded by the shell because "local" means "local to the current process."
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsh\fR(1), \fBattributes\fR(5)  
