'\" te
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH vsig 1F "5 Jul 1990" "SunOS 5.11" "FMLI Commands"
.SH NAME
vsig \- synchronize a co-process with the controlling FMLI application
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBvsig\fR 
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBvsig\fR executable sends a  \fBSIGUSR2\fR signal to the controlling FMLI process. This signal/alarm causes FMLI to execute the FMLI built-in command \fBcheckworld\fR which causes all posted objects with a \fBreread\fR descriptor evaluating to  \fBTRUE\fR to be reread. \fBvsig\fR takes no arguments.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRA sample output of \fBvsig\fR command.
.sp
.LP
The following is a segment of a shell program:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBecho "Sending this string to an FMLI process"
vsig\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The \fBvsig\fR executable will flush the output buffer \fIbefore\fR it sends the SIGUSR2 signal to make sure the string is actually in the pipe created by the \fBcocreate\fR function.

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWesu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBcoproc\fR(1F), \fBkill\fR(1), \fBkill\fR(2), \fBsignal\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Because \fBvsig\fR synchronize with FMLI, it should be used rather than \fBkill\fR to send a SIGUSR2 signal to FMLI.   
