'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License"). You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing. See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE. If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH lx 5 "29 Jul 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "Standards, Environments, and Macros"
.SH NAME
lx \- Linux branded zone
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBlx\fR brand uses the branded zones framework described in \fBbrands\fR(5) to enable Linux binary applications to run unmodified on a machine with a Solaris Operating System kernel.
.sp
.LP
The \fBlx\fR brand includes the tools necessary to install a CentOS 3.x or Red Hat Enterprise Linux 3.x distribution inside a non-global zone. The brand supports the execution of 32-bit Linux applications on x86/x64 machines running the Solaris system in either 32-bit or 64-bit mode.
.SS "Supported Linux Distributions"
.sp
.LP
The \fBlx\fR brand emulates the system call interfaces provided by the Linux 2.4.21 kernel, as modified by Red Hat in the RHEL 3.x distributions. This kernel provides the system call interfaces consumed by the \fBglibc\fR version 2.3.2 released by Red Hat.
.sp
.LP
In addition, the \fBlx\fR brand partially emulates the Linux \fB/dev\fR and \fB/proc\fR interfaces.
.SS "Configuration and Administration"
.sp
.LP
The \fBlx\fR brand supports the whole root non-global zone model. You cannot use the \fBinherit-pkg-dir\fR resource with the \fBlx\fR brand. All of the required linux packages are installed into the private file systems of the zone.
.sp
.LP
The \fBzonecfg\fR(1M) utility is used to configure an \fBlx\fR branded zone. Once a branded zone has been installed, that zone's brand cannot be changed or removed. The \fBzoneadm\fR(1M) utility is used to report the zone's brand type and administer the zone. The \fBzlogin\fR(1) utility is used to log in to the zone.
.SS "Application Support"
.sp
.LP
The \fBlx\fR zone only supports user-level Linux applications. You cannot use Linux device drivers, Linux kernel modules, or Linux file systems from inside an \fBlx\fR zone.
.sp
.LP
You cannot add any non-standard Solaris devices to a Linux zone. Any attempt to do so will result in a zone that \fBzonecfg\fR(1M) will refuse to verify.
.sp
.LP
You cannot run Solaris applications inside an \fBlx\fR zone. Solaris debugging tools such as \fBDTrace\fR (see \fBdtrace\fR(1M)) and \fBmdb\fR (see \fBmdb\fR(1)) can be applied to Linux processes executing inside the zone, but the tools themselves must be running in the global zone. Any core files generated are produced in the Solaris format, and such files can only be debugged with Solaris tools. 
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for a description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
\fBATTRIBUTE TYPE\fR\fBATTRIBUTE VALUE\fR
_
AvailabilitySUNWlxr, SUNWlxu
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBmdb\fR(1), \fBzlogin\fR(1), \fBzonename\fR(1), \fBdtrace\fR(1M), \fBzoneadm\fR(1M), \fBzonecfg\fR(1M), \fBbrands\fR(5), \fBzones\fR(5), \fBlx_systrace\fR(7D)
