'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH des 1 "3 Mar 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
des \- encrypt or decrypt data using Data Encryption Standard
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBdes\fR \fB-e\fR |  \fB-d\fR [\fB-bfs\fR] [\fB-k\fR \fIkey\fR] [\fIinput-file\fR [\fIoutput-file\fR]]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBdes\fR encrypts and decrypts data using the \fBNBS\fR Data Encryption Standard algorithm. One of  \fB-e\fR (for encrypt) or \fB-d\fR (for decrypt) must be specified.
.sp
.LP
The  \fBdes\fR command is provided to promote secure exchange of data in a standard fashion.
.sp
.LP
Two standard encryption modes are supported by the \fBdes\fR program, Cipher Block Chaining (CBC \(em the default) and Electronic Code Book (ECB \(em specified with \fB-b\fR). \fBCBC\fR mode treats an entire file as a unit of encryption, that is, if insertions or deletions are made to the encrypted file then decryption will not succeed. \fBCBC\fR mode also ensures that regularities in clear data do not appear in the encrypted data. \fBECB\fR mode treats each 8 bytes as units of encryptions, so if parts of the encrypted file are modified then other parts may still be decrypted. Identical values of clear text encrypt to identical values of cipher text.
.sp
.LP
The key used for the \fBDES\fR algorithm is obtained by prompting the user unless the `\fB-k\fR \fIkey\fR' option is given. If the key is an argument to the \fBdes\fR command, it is potentially visible to users executing \fBps\fR(1) or a derivative.  To minimize this possibility, \fBdes\fR takes care to destroy the key argument immediately upon entry.
.sp
.LP
The \fBdes\fR command attempts to use \fBDES\fR hardware for its job, but will use a software implementation of the \fBDES\fR algorithm if the hardware is unavailable.  Normally, a warning message is printed if the \fBDES\fR hardware is unavailable since the software is only about 1/50th as fast.  However, the  \fB-f\fR option will suppress the warning. The \fB-s\fR option may be used to force use of software instead of hardware \fBDES.\fR
.sp
.LP
The \fBdes\fR command reads from standard input unless \fIinput-file\fR is specified and writes to standard output unless \fIoutput-file\fR is given.
.sp
.LP
The following sections give information required to implement compatible facilities in other environments.
.sp
.LP
Since the \fBCBC\fR and \fBECB\fR modes of \fBDES\fR require units of 8 bytes to be encrypted, files being encrypted by the \fBdes\fR command have 1 to 8 bytes appended to them to cause them to be a multiple of 8 bytes. The last byte, when decrypted, gives the number of bytes (0 to 7) which are to be saved of the last 8 bytes. The other bytes of those appended to the input are randomized before encryption. If, when decrypting, the last byte is not in the range of 0 to 7 then either the encrypted file has been corrupted or an incorrect key was provided for decryption and an error message is printed.
.sp
.LP
The \fBDES\fR algorithm requires an 8 byte key whose low order bits are assumed to be odd-parity bits.  The \fBASCII\fR key supplied by the user is zero padded to 8 bytes and the high order bits are set to be odd-parity bits.  The \fBDES\fR algorithm then ignores the low bit of each \fBASCII\fR character, but that bit's information has been preserved in the high bit due to the parity.
.sp
.LP
The \fBCBC\fR mode of operation always uses an initial value of all zeros for the initialization vector, so the first 8 bytes of a file are encrypted the same whether in \fBCBC\fR or \fBECB\fR mode.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-b\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt  
Select \fBECB\fR (eight bytes at a time) encryption mode.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-d\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt  
Decrypt data.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-e\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt  
Encrypt data.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt  
Suppress warning message when software implementation is used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt  
Select software implementation for the encryption algorithm.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-k\fR\fIkey\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt  
Use the encryption  \fIkey\fR specified.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/dev/des?\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt  

.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBps\fR(1)
.SH BUGS
.sp
.LP
It would be better to use a real 56-bit key rather than an ASCII-based 56-bit pattern.  Knowing that the key was derived from \fBASCII\fR radically reduces the time necessary for a brute-force cryptographic attack.
