'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH dtappsession 1 "15 Aug 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
dtappsession \- start a new Application Manager session
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/dt/bin/dtappsession\fR  [\fIhostname\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBdtappsession\fR is a specialized version of the \fBXsession\fR shell script. It is an alternative to using the \fBCDE\fR remote login that allows you to access a remote host without logging out of your current \fBCDE\fR session. \fBdtappsession\fR starts a new instance of the \fBCDE\fR Application Manager in its own ToolTalk\u\s-2TM\s+2\d session. It can be used to remotely display the Application Manager back to your local display after logging in to a remote host with the \fBrlogin\fR(1) command.
.sp
.LP
A new, independent instance of \fBttsession\fR(1) starts a simple session management window. This window displays the title 
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fIremote_hostname\fR: Remote Administration 
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
where \fIremote_hostname\fR is the system that is being accessed. The window also displays an \fBExit\fR button. Clicking \fBExit\fR terminates the ToolTalk session and all windows that are part of the session.
.sp
.LP
The Application Manager that is displayed can be used to start remote \fBCDE\fR actions to run in this session. Exiting the Application Manager does not terminate the session, and it is not recommended. Clicking \fBExit\fR is the recommended way to end the session. To avoid confusing the remote \fBCDE\fR applications with local ones, it is recommended that a new \fBCDE\fR workspace be created for clients in the remote session.
.sp
.LP
The \fIhostname\fR is not needed when the \fBDISPLAY\fR environment variable is set to the local hostname on the remote host.
.sp
.LP
On a system that is configured with Trusted Extensions, \fBdtappsession\fR can be used for remote administration by administrative roles that have the ability to log in to the remote host.
.sp
.LP
\fBdtappsession\fR does not require any privilege, and it does not need to run on a system that is configured with Trusted Extensions. When installed in \fB/usr/dt/bin\fR on a Solaris system, along with the \fBstartApp.ds\fR file, \fBdtappsession\fR can be used to administer the remote Solaris system from a local system that is configured with Trusted Extensions. However, in this case, the \fBCDE\fR workspace that is used for remote display must be a normal workspace, rather than a role workspace.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRRemote Login and dtappsession
.sp
.LP
After creating a new \fBCDE\fR workspace, type the following in a terminal window: 

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBrlogin \fIremote_hostname\fR\fR
password: /*type the remote password*/

# \fBdtappsession \fIlocal_hostname\fR\fR /* on the remote host */
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/usr/dt/bin/startApp.ds\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  
dt Korn shell script for session manager window
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWdttsu
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
.TE

.SH BUGS
.sp
.LP
X11/CDE applications that do not register with the ToolTalk session manager will not exit automatically when the session is terminated. Such applications must be explicitly terminated.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBdtfile\fR(1), \fBrlogin\fR(1), \fBttsession\fR(1), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
Chapter 14, \fIRemote Administration in Trusted Extensions (Tasks),\fR in \fISolaris Trusted Extensions Administrator\&'s Procedures\fR
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The functionality described on this manual page is available only if the system is configured with Trusted Extensions.
