'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH graph 1 "14 Sep 1992" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
graph \- draw a graph
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBgraph\fR [\fB-a\fR \fIspacing\fR [\fIstart\fR]] [\fB-b\fR] [\fB-c\fR \fIstring\fR] [\fB-g\fR \fIgridstyle\fR] 
     [\fB-l\fR \fIlabel\fR] [\fB-m\fR \fIconnectmode\fR] [\fB-s\fR] 
     [\fB-x\fR [l] \fIlower\fR [\fI upper\fR [\fIspacing\fR]]] 
     [\fB-y\fR [l] \fIlower\fR [\fIupper\fR [\fIspacing\fR]]] [\fB-h\fR \fIfraction\fR] 
     [\fB-w\fR \fIfraction\fR] [\fB-r\fR \fIfraction\fR] [\fB-u\fR \fIfraction\fR] [\fB-t\fR] ...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBgraph\fR with no options takes pairs of numbers from the standard input as abscissaes and ordinates of a graph.  Successive points are connected by straight lines.  The standard output from \fBgraph\fR contains plotting instructions suitable for input to \fBplot\fR(1B) or to the command \fBlpr \fR\fB-g\fR (see \fBlpr\fR(1B)).
.sp
.LP
If the coordinates of a point are followed by a nonnumeric string, that string is printed as a label beginning on the point. Labels may be surrounded with quotes \fB".\|.\|."\fR, in which case they may be empty or contain blanks and numbers; labels never contain \fBNEWLINE\fR characters.
.sp
.LP
A legend indicating grid range is produced with a grid unless the \fB-s\fR option is present.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
Each option is recognized as a separate argument. If a specified lower limit exceeds the upper limit, the axis is reversed.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-a\fR\fI spacing\fR\fB[\fR\fI start \fR\fB]\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Supply abscissaes automatically (they are missing from the input); \fIspacing\fR is the spacing (default 1). \fIstart\fR is the starting point for automatic abscissaes (default 0 or lower limit given by \fB-x\fR).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-b\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Break (disconnect) the graph after each label in the input.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-c\fR\fI string\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
\fIString\fR is the default label for each point.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-g\fR\fI gridstyle\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
\fIGridstyle\fR is the grid style: 0 no grid, 1 frame with ticks, 2 full grid (default).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR\fI label\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
\fIlabel\fR is label for graph.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-m\fR\fI connectmode\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Mode (style) of connecting lines: 0 disconnected, 1 connected (default).  Some devices give distinguishable line styles for other small integers.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Save screen, do not erase before plotting.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB\fR\fB-x\fR\fB [ l ] \fR\fIlower\fR\fB [ \fR\fIupper\fR \fB[\fR\fI spacing \fR\fB] ]\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If \fBl\fR is present, \fIx\fR axis is logarithmic. \fIlower\fR and \fIupper\fR are lower (and upper) \fIx\fR limits.  \fIspacing\fR, if present, is grid spacing on \fIx\fR axis.  Normally these quantities are determined automatically.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB\fR\fB-y\fR\fB [ l ] \fR\fIlower\fR\fB [ \fR\fIupper\fR \fB[\fR\fI spacing \fR\fB] ]\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If \fBl\fR is present, \fIy\fR axis is logarithmic. \fIlower\fR and \fIupper\fR are lower (and upper) \fIy\fR limits.  \fIspacing\fR, if present, is grid spacing on \fIy\fR axis.  Normally these quantities are determined automatically.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-h\fR\fI fraction\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
\fIfraction\fR of space for height.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-w\fR\fI fraction\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
\fIfraction\fR of space for width.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-r\fR\fI fraction\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
\fIfraction\fR of space to move right before plotting.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-u\fR\fI fraction\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
\fIfraction\fR of space to move up before plotting.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Transpose horizontal and vertical axes. Option \fB-x\fR now applies to the vertical axis.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWesu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlpr\fR(1B), \fBplot\fR(1B), \fBspline\fR(1), \fBplot\fR(3PLOT), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH BUGS
.sp
.LP
\fBgraph\fR stores all points internally and drops those for which there is no room.
.sp
.LP
Segments that run out of bounds are dropped, not windowed.
.sp
.LP
Logarithmic axes may not be reversed.
