'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License. When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with
.\" the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH mixerctl 1 "30 Apr 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
mixerctl \- audio mixer control command line application
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/mixerctl\fR [\fB-a\fR | \fB-d\fR \fIdev\fR] [\fB-iv\fR] [\fB-C\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/mixerctl\fR [\fB-a\fR | \fB-d\fR \fIdev\fR] [\fB-v\fR] \fB-c\fR \fIcontrol\fR [\fB-w\fR \fIvalue\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/mixerctl\fR [\fB-a\fR | \fB-d\fR \fIdev\fR] [\fB-f\fR] [\fB-s\fR \fIfile\fR | \fB-r\fR \fIfile\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBmixerctl\fR command is used to control various features of the audio mixer and to get information about the audio mixer and the audio device.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported. If no options are specified, option \fB-i\fR is assumed:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-a\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
The command applies to all audio devices.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-c\fR \fIcontrol\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
Indicates a control to access. If \fB-w\fR is not supplied, the information about the control, including its current value, are printed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-C\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
Prints a dump of the entire set of controls for the audio device including current and possible settings for each control.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-d\fR \fIdev\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
The \fIdev\fR argument specifies an alternate audio control device for the command to use.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-i\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
Prints the audio device type information for the device and other related details.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR \fIfile\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
Saves control values to \fIfile\fR. 
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-r\fR \fIfile\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
Restores control values previously saved to \fIfile\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-w\fR \fIvalue\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
Changes the setting of the named control to the given value. The format of the value depends on the type of the control. 
.sp
For boolean controls, the value can be either \fB\&'on'\fR or \fB\&'off'\fR. For enumerations, \fIvalue\fR is one of the possible strings given in the control information. For stereo values, \fIvalue\fR takes the form of either a pair of integers (\fB0-100\fR, inclusive) separated by a colon or a single integer by itself. If two integers are supplied, they refer to the left and right values, respectively. If only a single value is supplied, then \fIvalue\fR applies to both channels. 
.sp
For example, \fB50:100\fR means 50% volume on the left channel and full volume on the right. A value of \fB0\fR means silence on both channels. For monophonic (mono) values, the number is a single integer from 0-100, inclusive.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-v\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
Verbose mode. Prints additional information about the device and operation being performed. This option implies the \fB-i\fR option.
.RE

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBAUDIODEV\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt  
If the \fB-d\fR and \fB-a\fR options are not specified, the \fBAUDIODEV\fR environment variable is consulted. If set, \fBAUDIODEV\fR contains the full path name of the user's default audio device. The default audio device is converted into a control device, and then used. If the \fBAUDIODEV\fR variable is not set, \fB/dev/audioctl\fR is used.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.LP
\fB/dev/audioctl /dev/sound/{0...n}ctl\fR
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
ArchitectureSPARC, x86
_
AvailabilitySUNWauda
_
Stability LevelUncommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBaudioconvert\fR(1), \fBaudioplay\fR(1), \fBaudiorecord\fR(1), \fBopen\fR(2), \fBattributes\fR(5)
