'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH nischttl 1 "2 Dec 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
nischttl \- change the time to live value of a NIS+ object
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBnischttl\fR [\fB-AfLP\fR] \fItime\fR \fIname\fR...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBnischttl\fR changes the time to live value (\fBttl\fR) of the NIS+ objects or entries specified by \fIname\fR to \fItime\fR. Entries are specified using indexed names (see \fBnismatch\fR(1)).
.sp
.LP
The time to live value is used by object caches to expire objects within their cache. When an object is read into the cache, this value is added to the current time in seconds yielding the time when the cached object would expire. The object may be returned from the cache until the current time is earlier than the calculated expiration time. When the expiration time has been reached, the object will be  flushed from the cache.
.sp
.LP
The time to live \fItime\fR may be specified in seconds or in days, hours, minutes, seconds format. The latter format uses a suffix letter of \fBd\fR, \fBh\fR,  \fBm\fR, or \fBs\fR to identify the units of time. See the examples below for usage.
.sp
.LP
The command will fail if the master NIS+ server is not running.
.sp
.LP
Setting a high  \fBttl\fR value allows objects to stay persistent in caches for a longer period of time and can improve performance. However, when an object changes, in the worst case, the number of seconds in this attribute must pass before that change is visible to all clients. Setting a  \fBttl\fR value of \fB0\fR means that the object should not be cached at all.
.sp
.LP
A high  \fBttl\fR value is a week, a low value is less than a minute. Password entries should have  \fBttl\fR values of about 12 hours (easily allows one password change per day),  entries in the RPC table can have  \fBttl\fR values of several weeks (this information is effectively unchanging).
.sp
.LP
Only directory and group objects are cached in this implementation.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-A\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Modify all tables in the concatenation path that match the search criterion specified in \fIname\fR. This option implies the \fB-P\fR switch.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Force the operation and fail silently if it does not succeed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-L\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Follow links and change the time to live of the linked object or entries rather than the  time to live of the link itself.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-P\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Follow the concatenation path within a named table. This option only makes sense when either \fIname\fR is an indexed name or the \fB-L\fR switch is also specified and the named object is a link pointing to entries.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRChanging the \fBttl\fR of an Object
.sp
.LP
The following example shows how to change the  \fBttl\fR of an  object using the seconds format and the days, hours, minutes, seconds format. The  \fBttl\fR of the second object is set to 1 day and 12 hours.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBnischttl 184000 object
example% nischttl 1d12h object\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fRChanging the \fBttl\fR for a password Entry
.sp
.LP
This example shows how to change the  \fBttl\fR for a password entry.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBnischttl 1h30m '[uid=99],passwd.org_dir'\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 3 \fRChanging the \fBttl\fR of Entries Pointed to by a Link
.sp
.LP
The next two examples change the  \fBttl\fR of the object or entries pointed to by a link, and the  \fBttl\fR of all entries in the \fBhobbies\fR table.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBnischttl -L 12h linkname\fR
example% \fBnischttl 3600 '[],hobbies'\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBNIS_PATH\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt  
If this variable is set, and the \fBNIS+\fR name is not fully qualified, each directory specified will be searched until the object is found. See \fBnisdefaults\fR(1).
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt  
Successful operation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt  
Operation failed.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWnisu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBNIS+\fR(1), \fBnischgrp\fR(1), \fBnischmod\fR(1), \fBnischown\fR(1), \fBnisdefaults\fR(1), \fBnismatch\fR(1), \fBnis_objects\fR(3NSL), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
NIS+ might not be supported in future releases of the Solaris operating system. Tools to aid the migration from NIS+ to LDAP are available in the current Solaris release. For more information, visit http://www.sun.com/directory/nisplus/transition.html.
