'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH niscat 1 "2 Dec 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
niscat \- display NIS+ tables and objects
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBniscat\fR [\fB-AhLMv\fR] [\fB-s\fR \fIsep\fR] \fItablename\fR...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBniscat\fR [\fB-ALMP\fR] \fB-o\fR \fIname\fR...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
In the first synopsis, \fBniscat\fR displays the contents of the \fBNIS+\fR tables named by  \fItablename\fR. In the second synopsis, it displays the internal representation of the \fBNIS+\fR objects named by \fIname\fR.
.sp
.LP
Columns without values in the table are displayed by two adjacent separator characters.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-A\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Displays the data within the table and all of  the data in tables in the initial table's concatenation path.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-h\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Displays the header line prior to displaying the table. The header consists of the `\fB#\fR' (hash) character followed by the name of each column. The column names are separated by the table separator character.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-L\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Follows links. When this option is specified, if \fItablename\fR or \fIname\fR names a LINK type object, the link is followed and the object or table named by the link is displayed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-M\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Master server only. This option specifies that the request should be sent to the master server of the named data. This guarantees that the most up-to-date information is seen at the possible expense of increasing the load on the master server and increasing the possibility of the \fBNIS+\fR server being unavailable or busy for updates.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-o\fR \fIname\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Displays the internal representation of the named \fBNIS+\fR object(s). If \fIname\fR is an indexed name (see \fBnismatch\fR(1)), then each of the matching entry objects is displayed. This option is used to display access rights and other attributes of individual columns.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-P\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Follows concatenation path. This option specifies that the request should  follow the concatenation path of a table if the initial search is unsuccessful. This option is only useful when using an indexed name for \fIname\fR and the \fB-o\fR option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR \fIsep\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
This option specifies the character to use to separate the table columns. If no character is specified, the default separator for the table is used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-v\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Displays binary data directly. This option displays columns containing binary data on the standard output. Without this option binary data is displayed as the string  \fB*BINARY*\fR.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRDisplaying the Contents of the Hosts Table
.sp
.LP
The following example displays the contents of the hosts table: 

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% niscat \fB-h hosts.org_dir\fR
# cname	name	addr	comment
client1	client1	192.168.201.100	Joe Smith
crunchy	crunchy	192.168.201.44	Jane Smith
crunchy	softy	192.168.201.44
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The string \fB*NP*\fR is returned in those fields where the user has insufficient access rights.

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fRDisplaying on the Standard Output
.sp
.LP
The following displays the \fBpasswd.org_dir\fR on the standard output.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBniscat passwd.org_dir\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 3 \fRDisplaying Table Contents
.sp
.LP
Display the contents of table \fBfrodo\fR and the contents of all tables in its concatenation path.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBniscat -A frodo\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 4 \fRDisplaying Table Entries
.sp
.LP
The following example diisplays the entries in the table \fBgroups.org_dir\fR as \fBNIS+\fR objects. Notice that the brackets are protected from the shell by single quotes.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBniscat -o '[ ]groups.org_dir'\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 5 \fRDisplaying the Table Object
.sp
.LP
The following example displays the table object of the \fBpasswd.org_dir\fR table.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBniscat -o passwd.org_dir\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The previous example displays the passwd table object and not the passwd table. The table object includes information such as the number of columns, column type, searchable or not searchable separator, access rights, and other defaults.

.LP
\fBExample 6 \fRDisplaying the Directory Object
.sp
.LP
The following example displays the directory object for \fBorg_dir\fR, which includes information such as the access rights and replica information.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBniscat -o org_dir\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBNIS_PATH\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt  
If this variable is set, and the \fBNIS+\fR table name is not fully qualified, each directory specified will be searched until the table is found (see \fBnisdefaults\fR(1)).
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
\fBniscat\fR returns the following values:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt  
Successful completion
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt  
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWnisu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBNIS+\fR(1), \fBnisdefaults\fR(1), \fBnismatch\fR(1), \fBnistbladm\fR(1), \fBnis_objects\fR(3NSL), \fBnis_tables\fR(3NSL), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
NIS+ might not be supported in future releases of the Solaris operating system. Tools to aid the migration from NIS+ to LDAP are available in the current Solaris release. For more information, visit http://www.sun.com/directory/nisplus/transition.html.
