'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH nisdefaults 1 "2 Dec 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
nisdefaults \- display NIS+ default values
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBnisdefaults\fR [\fB-adghprstv\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBnisdefaults\fR utility prints the default values that are returned by calls to the  \fBNIS+\fR local name functions (see \fBnis_local_names\fR(3NSL)). With no options specified, all defaults will be printed in a verbose format. With options, only that option is displayed in a terse form suitable for shell scripts. See the example below.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-a\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Print all defaults in a terse format.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-d\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Print the default domain name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-g\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Print the default group name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-h\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Print the default host name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Print the default principal name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-r\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Print the default access rights with which new objects will be created.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Print the default directory search path.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Print the default time to live value.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-v\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Print the defaults in a verbose format. This prepends an identifying string to the output.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRPrinting NIS+ defaults
.sp
.LP
The following prints the  \fBNIS+\fR defaults for a root process on machine \fBexample\fR in the  \fBfoo.bar.\fR domain:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBexample# nisdefaults\fR
Principal Name	:	example.foo.bar.
Domain Name	:	foo.bar.
Host Name	:	example.foo.bar.
Group Name	:
Access Rights   :       \(mi\|\(mi\|\(mi\|\(mirmcdr\(mi\|\(mi\|\(mir\|\(mi\|\(mi\|\(mi
Time to live	:	12:00:00
Search Path	:	foo.bar.
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fRSetting a variable in the shell script
.sp
.LP
This example sets a variable in a shell script to the default domain:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBDOMAIN=`nisdefaults -d`\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 3 \fRPrinting the default time to live in verbose format
.sp
.LP
This example prints out the default time to live in a verbose format:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBnisdefaults -tv\fR
Time to live   :       12:00:00 
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 4 \fRPrinting the time to live in terse format
.sp
.LP
This example prints out the time to live in the terse format:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBnisdefaults -t\fR
43200
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
Several environment variables affect the defaults associated with a process.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBNIS_DEFAULTS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
This variable contains a defaults string that will override the  \fBNIS+\fR standard defaults. The defaults string is a series of tokens separated by colons. These tokens represent the default values to be used for the generic object properties. All of the legal tokens are described below.  
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBttl=\fR\fItime\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt  
This token sets the default time to live for objects that are created. The value  \fItime\fR is specified in the format as defined by the \fBnischttl\fR(1) command. The default value is \fB12\fR hours.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBowner=\fR\fIownername\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt  
This token specifies that the \fBNIS+\fR principal  \fIownername\fR should own created objects. The default for this value is the principal who is executing the command.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBgroup=\fR\fIgroupname\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt  
This token specifies that the group  \fIgroupname\fR should be the group owner for created objects. The default is \fINULL\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBaccess=\fR\fIrights\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt  
This token specifies the set of access rights that are to be granted for created objects. The value  \fIrights\fR is specified in the format as defined by the  \fBnischmod\fR(1) command. The default value is: \fB\(mi\|\(mi\|\(mi\|\(mirmcdr\(mi\|\(mi\|\(mir\(mi\|\(mi\|\(mi\fR\&.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBNIS_GROUP\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
This variable contains the name of the local \fBNIS+\fR group. If the name is not fully qualified, the default domain will be appended to it.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBNIS_PATH\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
This variable overrides the default \fBNIS+\fR directory search path. It contains an ordered list of directories separated by ':' (colon) characters. The '$' (dollar sign) character is treated specially. Directory names that end in '$' have the default domain appended to them, and a '$' by itself is replaced by the list of directories between the default domain and the global root that are at least two levels deep. The default \fBNIS+\fR directory search path is '$'.
.sp
Refer to the  \fBName Expansion\fR subsection in \fBNIS+\fR(1) for more details.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWnisu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBnischmod\fR(1), \fBnischttl\fR(1), \fBNIS+\fR(1), \fBnis_local_names\fR(3NSL), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
NIS+ might not be supported in future releases of the Solaris operating system. Tools to aid the migration from NIS+ to LDAP are available in the current Solaris release. For more information, visit http://www.sun.com/directory/nisplus/transition.html.
