'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH niserror 1 "2 Dec 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
niserror \- display NIS+ error messages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBniserror\fR \fIerror-num\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBniserror\fR prints the  NIS+ error associated with status value \fIerror-num\fR on the standard output. It is used by shell scripts to translate NIS+ error numbers that are returned into text messages.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRUsing \fBniserror\fR
.sp
.LP
The following example prints the error associated with the error number \fB20\fR:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% niserror 20
Not Found, no such name
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWnisu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBNIS+\fR(1), \fBnis_error\fR(3NSL), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
NIS+ might not be supported in future releases of the Solaris operating system. Tools to aid the migration from NIS+ to LDAP are available in the current Solaris release. For more information, visit http://www.sun.com/directory/nisplus/transition.html.
