'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH nisgrpadm 1 "2 Dec 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
nisgrpadm \- NIS+ group administration command
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBnisgrpadm\fR \fB-a\fR | \fB-r\fR | \fB-t\fR [\fB-s\fR] \fIgroup\fR \fIprincipal\fR...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBnisgrpadm\fR \fB-d\fR | \fB-l\fR [\fB-M\fR] [\fB-s\fR] \fIgroup\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBnisgrpadm\fR \fB-c\fR [\fB-D\fR \fIdefaults\fR] [\fB-M\fR] [\fB-s\fR] \fIgroup\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBnisgrpadm\fR utility is used to administer  \fBNIS+\fR groups. This command administers both groups and the groups' membership lists. \fBnisgrpadm\fR can create, destroy, or list  \fBNIS+\fR groups. \fBnisgrpadm\fR can be used to administer a group's membership list. It can add or delete principals to the group, or test principals for membership in the group.
.sp
.LP
The names of \fBNIS+\fR groups are syntactically similar to names of  \fBNIS+\fR objects but they occupy a separate namespace. A group named \fBa.b.c.d.\fR is represented by a \fBNIS+\fR group object named \fBa.groups_dir.b.c.d.\fR; the functions described here all expect the name of the group, not the name of the corresponding group object.
.sp
.LP
There are three types of group members:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
An \fIexplicit\fR member is just a \fBNIS+\fR principal-name. For example: \fBwickedwitch.west.oz.\fR
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
An \fIimplicit\fR ("domain") member, written \fB*.west.oz.\fR, means that all principals in the given domain belong to this member. No other forms of wildcarding are allowed; \fBwickedwitch.*.oz.\fR is invalid, as is \fBwickedwitch.west.*.\fR\|. Note that principals in subdomains of the given domain are \fInot\fR included.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
A \fIrecursive\fR ("group") member, written \fB@cowards.oz.\fR, refers to another group;  all principals that belong to that group are considered to belong here.
.RE
.sp
.LP
Any member may be made \fInegative\fR by prefixing it with a minus sign ('\(mi'). A group may thus contain explicit, implicit, recursive, negative explicit, negative implicit, and negative recursive members.
.sp
.LP
A principal is considered to belong to a group if it belongs to at least one non-negative group member of the group and belongs to no negative group members.
.sp
.LP
Principal names  \fImust\fR be fully qualified, whereas groups can be abbreviated on all operations  \fIexcept\fR create.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-a\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt  
Adds the list of \fBNIS+\fR principals specified to  \fIgroup\fR. The principal name should be fully qualified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-c\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt  
Creates  \fIgroup\fR in the \fBNIS+\fR namespace. The \fBNIS+\fR group name should be fully qualified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-d\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt  
Destroys (removes)  \fIgroup\fR from the namespace.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-D\fR\fI defaults\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt  
When creating objects, this option specifies a different set of  defaults to be used during this operation. The \fIdefaults\fR string is a series of tokens separated by colons. These tokens represent the default values to be used for the generic object properties. All of the legal tokens are described below.  
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBttl=\fR\fItime\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt  
This token sets the default time to live for objects that are created by this command. The value \fItime\fR is specified in the format as defined by the \fBnischttl\fR(1) command. The default value is 12 hours.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBowner=\fR\fIownername\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt  
This token specifies that the \fBNIS+\fR principal \fIownername\fR should own the created object. Normally this value is the same as the principal who is executing the command.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBgroup=\fR\fIgroupname\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt  
This token specifies that the group \fIgroupname\fR should be the group owner for the object that is created.  The default value is \fINULL.\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBaccess=\fR\fIrights\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt  
This token specifies the set of access rights that are to be granted for the given object. The value \fIrights\fR is specified in the format as defined by the  \fBnischmod\fR(1) command. The default value is \fB\(mi\|\(mi\|\(mi\|\(mirmcdr\(mi\|\(mi\|\(mir\(mi\|\(mi\|\(mi\fR\&.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt  
Lists the membership list of the specified  \fIgroup\fR. (See  \fB-M\fR option.)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-M\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt  
Master server only. Sends the lookup to the master server of the named data. This guarantees that the most up to date information is seen at the possible expense that the master server may be busy. Note that the  \fB-M\fR flag is applicable only with the \fB-l\fR flag.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-r\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt  
Removes the list of principals specified from  \fIgroup\fR. The principal name should be fully qualified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt  
Work silently. Results are returned using the exit status of the command. This status can be translated into a text string using the  \fBniserror\fR(1) command.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt  
Displays whether the principals specified are members in \fIgroup\fR.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.SS "Administering Groups"
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRCreating a group
.sp
.LP
This example shows how to create a group in the  \fBfoo.com.\fR domain:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBnisgrpadm -c my_buds.foo.com.\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fRHow to remove a group
.sp
.LP
This example shows how to remove the group from the current domain.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBnisgrpadm -d freds_group\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SS "Administering Members"
.LP
\fBExample 3 \fRAdding to the group
.sp
.LP
This example shows how one would add two principals,  \fBbob\fR and  \fBbetty\fR, to the group  \fBmy_buds.foo.com.:\fR

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBnisgrpadm -a my_buds.foo.com. bob.bar.com. betty.foo.com.\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 4 \fRHow to remove a principal from the group
.sp
.LP
This example shows how to remove  \fBbetty\fR from  \fBfreds_group\fR:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBnisgrpadm -r freds_group betty.foo.com.\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBNIS_DEFAULTS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
This variable contains a defaults string that will override the \fBNIS+\fR standard defaults.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBNIS_PATH\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
If this variable is set, and the \fBNIS+\fR group name is not fully qualified, each directory specified will be searched until the group is found (see \fBnisdefaults\fR(1)).
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWnisu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBNIS+\fR(1), \fBnischgrp\fR(1), \fBnischmod\fR(1), \fBnischttl\fR(1), \fBnisdefaults\fR(1), \fBniserror\fR(1), \fBnis_groups\fR(3NSL), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBNIS_SUCCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
On success, this command returns an exit status of \fB0\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBNIS_PERMISSION\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
When you do not have the needed access right to change the group, the command returns this error.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBNIS_NOTFOUND\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
This is returned when the group does not exist.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBNIS_TRYAGAIN\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
This error is returned when the server for the group's domain is currently checkpointing or otherwise in a read-only state. The command should be retried at a later date.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBNIS_MODERROR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
This error is returned when the group was modified by someone else during the execution of the command. Reissue the command and optionally recheck the group's membership list.
.RE

.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
NIS+ might not be supported in future releases of the Solaris operating system. Tools to aid the migration from NIS+ to LDAP are available in the current Solaris release. For more information, visit http://www.sun.com/directory/nisplus/transition.html.
