'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH nisls 1 "2 Dec 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
nisls \- list the contents of a NIS+ directory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBnisls\fR [\fB-dglLmMR\fR] [\fIname\fR]...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
For each \fIname\fR that is a NIS+ directory, \fBnisls\fR lists the contents of the directory. For each \fIname\fR that is a NIS+ object other than a directory, \fBnisls\fR simply echos the name. If no \fIname\fR is specified, the first directory in the search path is listed. See \fBnisdefaults\fR(1).
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-d\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Treat  NIS+ directories like other NIS+ objects, rather than listing their contents.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-g\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Display group owner instead of owner when listing in long format.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
List in long format. This option displays additional information about the objects such as their type, creation time, owner, and access rights.
.sp
The access rights are listed in the following order in long mode: nobody, owner, group owner, and world.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-L\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
This option specifies that links are to be followed. If \fIname\fR actually points to a link, it is followed to the linked object.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-m\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Display modification time instead of creation time when listing in long format.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-M\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Master only. This specifies that information is to be returned from the master server of the named object. This guarantees that the most up to date information is seen at the possible expense that the master server may be busy.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-R\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
List directories recursively. This option will reiterate the list for each subdirectory found in the process of listing each \fIname\fR.
.RE

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBNIS_PATH\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt  
If this variable is set, and the NIS+ name is not fully qualified, each directory specified will be searched until the object is found. See \fBnisdefaults\fR(1).
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt  
Successful operation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt  
Operation failed.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWnisu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBnisdefaults\fR(1), \fBnisgrpadm\fR(1), \fBnismatch\fR(1), \fBnistbladm\fR(1), \fBnis_objects\fR(3NSL), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
NIS+ might not be supported in future releases of the Solaris operating system. Tools to aid the migration from NIS+ to LDAP are available in the current Solaris release. For more information, visit http://www.sun.com/directory/nisplus/transition.html.
