'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH nismkdir 1 "2 Dec 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
nismkdir \- create NIS+ directories
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBnismkdir\fR [\fB-D\fR \fIdefaults\fR] [\fB-m\fR \fIhostname\fR] [\fB-s\fR \fIhostname\fR] \fIdirname\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBnismkdir\fR command creates new NIS+ subdirectories within an existing domain. It can also be used to create replicated directories.  Without options, this command will create a subdirectory with the same master and the replicas as its parent directory.
.sp
.LP
It is advisable to use \fBnisserver\fR(1M) to create an NIS+ domain which consists of the specified directory along with the \fBorg_dir\fR and \fBgroups_dir\fR subdirectories.
.sp
.LP
The two primary aspects that are controlled when making a directory are its access rights, and its degree of replication.
.sp
.LP
A host that serves a  NIS+ directory must be a NIS+ client in a directory above the one it is serving. The exceptions to this rule are the root NIS+ servers, which are both clients and servers of the same  NIS+ directory.
.sp
.LP
When the host's default domain is different from the default domain on the client where the command is executed, the hostname supplied as an argument to the \fB-s\fR or \fB-m\fR options must be fully qualified.
.sp
.LP
Special per-server and per-directory access restrictions may apply when this command updates the serving lists of the affected NIS+ servers. See \fBnisopaccess\fR(1).
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-D\fR\fI defaults\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt  
Specify a different set of defaults to be used when creating new directories. The \fIdefaults\fR string is a series of tokens separated by colons. These tokens represent the default values to be used for the generic object properties. All of the legal tokens are described below.  
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBttl=\fR\fItime\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt  
This token sets the default time to live for objects that are created by this command. The value \fItime\fR is specified in the format as defined by the \fBnischttl\fR(1) command. The default value is  \fB12h\fR (12 hours).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBowner=\fR\fIownername\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt  
This token specifies that the \fBNIS+\fR principal \fIownername\fR should own the created object. The default for this value is the principal who is executing the command.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBgroup=\fR\fIgroupname\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt  
This token specifies that the group \fIgroupname\fR should be the group owner for the object that is created.  The default value is \fINULL\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBaccess=\fR\fIrights\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt  
This token specifies the set of access rights that are to be granted for the given object. The value \fIrights\fR is specified in the format as defined by the  \fBnischmod\fR(1) command. The default value is \fB\(mi\|\(mi\|\(mi\|\(mirmcdr\(mi\|\(mi\|\(mir\(mi\|\(mi\|\(mi\fR\&.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-m\fR\fI hostname\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt  
If the directory named by \fIdirname\fR does not exist, then a new directory that is \fInot\fR replicated is created with host \fIhostname\fR as its master server.
.sp
If the directory name by \fBdirname\fR does exist, then the host named by \fBhostname\fR is made its master server.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR\fI hostname\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt  
Specify that the host \fBhostname\fR will be a  replica for an existing directory named \fIdirname.\fR
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operand is supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIdirname\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
The fully qualified \fBNIS+\fR name of the directory that has to be created.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRUsing the \fBnismkdir\fR Command
.sp
.LP
To create a new directory  \fBbar\fR under the  \fBfoo.com.\fR domain that shares the same master and replicas as the \fBfoo.com.\fR directory one would use the command:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBnismkdir bar.foo.com.\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
To create a new directory  \fBbar.foo.com.\fR that is not replicated under the  \fBfoo.com.\fR domain one would use the command:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBnismkdir -m myhost.foo.com. bar.foo.com.\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
To add a replica server of the \fBbar.foo.com.\fR directory, one would use the command:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBnismkdir -s replica.foo.com. bar.foo.com.\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBNIS_DEFAULTS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
This variable contains a defaults string that will override the  \fBNIS+\fR standard defaults. If the  \fB-D\fR switch is used those values will then override both the  \fBNIS_DEFAULTS\fR variable and the standard defaults.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBNIS_PATH \fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
If this variable is set, and the \fBNIS+\fR directory name is not fully qualified, each directory specified will be searched until the directory is found (see \fBnisdefaults\fR(1)).
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt  
Successful operation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt  
Operation failed.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWnisu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBNIS+\fR(1), \fBnischmod\fR(1), \fBnischttl\fR(1), \fBnisdefaults\fR(1), \fBnisls\fR(1), \fBnisopaccess\fR(1), \fBnisrmdir\fR(1), \fBnisserver\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
NIS+ might not be supported in future releases of the Solaris operating system. Tools to aid the migration from NIS+ to LDAP are available in the current Solaris release. For more information, visit http://www.sun.com/directory/nisplus/transition.html.
