'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH nismatch 1 "2 Dec 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
nismatch, nisgrep \- utilities for searching NIS+ tables
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBnismatch\fR [\fB-AchMoPv\fR] [\fB-s\fR \fIsep\fR] \fIkey\fR \fItablename\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBnismatch\fR [\fB-AchMoPv\fR] [\fB-s\fR \fIsep\fR] \fIcolname\fR = \fIkey\fR... \fItablename\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBnismatch\fR [\fB-AchMoPv\fR] [\fB-s\fR \fIsep\fR] \fIindexedname\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBnisgrep\fR [\fB-AchiMov\fR] [\fB-s\fR \fIsep\fR] \fIkeypat\fR \fItablename\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBnisgrep\fR [\fB-AchiMov\fR] [\fB-s\fR \fIsep\fR] \fIcolname\fR = \fIkeypat\fR... \fItablename\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The utilities \fBnismatch\fR and \fBnisgrep\fR can be used to search NIS+ tables. The command  \fBnisgrep\fR differs from the \fBnismatch\fR command in its ability to accept regular expressions \fIkeypat\fR for the search criteria rather than simple text matches.
.sp
.LP
Because \fBnisgrep\fR uses a callback function, it is not constrained to searching only those columns that are specifically made searchable at the time of table creation. This makes it more flexible, but slower, than \fBnismatch\fR.
.sp
.LP
In \fBnismatch\fR, the server does the searching, whereas in \fBnisgrep\fR the server returns all the readable entries and then the client does the pattern-matching.
.sp
.LP
In both commands, the parameter  \fItablename\fR is the NIS+ name of the table to be searched. If only one key or key pattern is specified without the column name, then it is applied searching the first column. Specific named columns can be searched by using the \fIcolname\fR=\fIkey\fR syntax. When multiple columns are searched, only entries that match in all columns are returned. This is the equivalent of a logical join operation.
.sp
.LP
\fBnismatch\fR accepts an additional form of search criteria, \fIindexedname\fR, which is a NIS+ indexed name of the form:
.sp
.LP
\fB[ \fR\fIcolname\fR\fB=\fR\fIvalue\fR\fB, .\|.\|. ],\fR\fItablename\fR
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-A\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
All data. Return the data within the table and all of the data in tables in the initial table's concatenation path.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-c\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
Print only a count of the number of entries that matched the search criteria.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-h\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
Display a header line before the matching entries that contains the names of the table's columns
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-i\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
Ignore upper/lower case distinction during comparisons.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-M\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
Master server only. Send the lookup to the master server of the named data. This guarantees that the most up to date information is seen at the possible expense that the master server may be busy.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-o\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
Display the internal representation of the matching \fBNIS+\fR object(s).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-P\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
Follow concatenation path. Specify that the lookup should follow the concatenation path of a table if the initial search is unsuccessful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR\fI sep\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
This option specifies the character to use to separate the table columns. If no character is specified, the default separator for the table is used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-v\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
Verbose. Do not suppress the output of binary data when displaying matching entries. Without this option binary data is displayed as the string  \fB*BINARY*\fR.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRSearching a table for a username
.sp
.LP
This example searches a table named  \fBpasswd\fR in the  \fBorg_dir\fR subdirectory of the  \fBzotz.com.\fR domain. It returns the entry that has the username of \fBskippy\fR. In this example, all the work is done on the server:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBnismatch name=skippy passwd.org_dir.zotz.com.\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fRFinding users using specific shells
.sp
.LP
This example is similar to the one above, except that it uses  \fBnisgrep\fR to find all users in the table named  \fBpasswd\fR that are using either \fBksh\fR(1) or \fBcsh\fR(1):

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBnisgrep 'shell=[ck]sh' passwd.org_dir.zotz.com.\fR 
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBNIS_PATH\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt  
If this variable is set, and the \fBNIS+\fR table name is not fully qualified, each directory specified will be searched until the table is found (see \fBnisdefaults\fR(1)).
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt  
Successfully matches some entries.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt  
Successfully searches the table and no matches are found.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB2\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt  
An error condition occurs. An error message is also printed.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWnisu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBniscat\fR(1), \fBnisdefaults\fR(1), \fBnisls\fR(1), \fBnistbladm\fR(1), \fBnis_objects\fR(3NSL), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBNo memory\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
An attempt to allocate some memory for the search failed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fItablename\fR\fB is not a table\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The object with the name \fItablename\fR was not a table object.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBCan't compile regular expression\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The regular expression in \fIkeypat\fR was malformed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBcolumn not found: \fR\fIcolname\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The column named \fIcolname\fR does not exist in the table named  \fItablename\fR.
.RE

.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
NIS+ might not be supported in future releases of the Solaris operating system. Tools to aid the migration from NIS+ to LDAP are available in the current Solaris release. For more information, visit http://www.sun.com/directory/nisplus/transition.html.
