'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH nisopaccess 1 "2 Dec 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
nisopaccess \- NIS+ operation access control administration command
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBnisopaccess\fR [\fB-v\fR] \fIdirectory\fR \fIoperation\fR \fIrights\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBnisopaccess\fR [\fB-v\fR] [\fB-r\fR] \fIdirectory\fR \fIoperation\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBnisopaccess\fR [\fB-v\fR] [\fB-l\fR] \fIdirectory\fR [\fIoperation\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Most NIS+ operations have implied access control through the permissions on the objects that they manipulate. For example,  in order to read an entry in a table, you must have read permission on that entry. However, some NIS+ operations by default perform no access checking at all and are allowed to all: 
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBOperation\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
\fBExample of commands that use the operation\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBNIS_CHECKPOINT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
\fBnisping\fR \fB-C\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBNIS_CPTIME\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
\fBnisping\fR, \fBrpc.nisd\fR  
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBNIS_MKDIR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
\fBnismkdir\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBNIS_PING\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
\fBnisping\fR,  \fBrpc.nisd\fR  
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBNIS_RMDIR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
\fBnisrmdir\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBNIS_SERVSTATE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
\fBnisbackup\fR,   \fBnisrestore\fR  
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBNIS_STATUS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
\fBnisstat\fR, \fBrpc.nispasswdd\fR 
.RE

.sp
.LP
The \fBnisopaccess\fR command can be used to enforce access control on these operations on a per NIS+ directory basis.
.sp
.LP
The \fIdirectory\fR argument should be the fully qualified name, including the trailing dot, of the NIS+ directory to which \fBnisopaccess\fR will be  applied. As a short-hand method, if the directory name does not end in a trailing dot, for example "\fBorg_dir\fR", then the domain name is appended. The domain name is also appended to partial paths such as "\fBorg_dir.xyz\fR".
.sp
.LP
You can use upper or lower case for the \fIoperation\fR argument. However, you cannot mix cases. The "\fBNIS_\fR"  prefix may be omitted. For example, \fBNIS_PING\fR can be specified as  \fBNIS_PING\fR, \fBnis_ping\fR, \fBPING\fR, or \fBping\fR.
.sp
.LP
The \fIrights\fR argument is specified in the format defined by the \fBnischmod\fR(1) command. Since only the read ("r") rights are used to  determine who has the right to perform the operation,  the modify and delete rights may be used to control who can change  access to the operation.
.sp
.LP
The access checking performed for each operation is as  follows. When an operation requires  access be checked on all  directories served by its \fBrpc.nisd\fR(1M), access is denied if even one of the directories prohibits the operation.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBNIS_CHECKPOINT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
Check specified directory, or all directories if there is no directory argument, as is the case when \fBNIS_CHECKPOINT\fR is issued by the "\fBnisping\fR \fB-Ca\fR" command. Return \fBNIS_PERMISSION\fR when access is denied.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBNIS_CPTIME\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
Check specified directory. It returns \fB0\fR when access  is denied.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBNIS_MKDIR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
Check parent of specified directory. Returns  \fBNIS_PERMISSION\fR when access is denied.          
.sp
If the parent directory is not available locally, that is, it is not served by this \fBrpc.nisd\fR(1M), \fBNIS_MKDIR\fR access  is allowed, though the operation will be executed only if this \fBrpc.nisd\fR is a known replica of the directory.          
.sp
You should note that the \fBNIS_MKDIR\fR operation does not create  a NIS+ directory; it adds a directory to the serving list for this \fBrpc.nisd\fR, if appropriate.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBNIS_PING\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
Check specified directory. No return value.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBNIS_RMDIR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
Check specified directory. \fBNIS_PERMISSION\fR is returned when access denied.          
.sp
The \fBNIS_RMDIR\fR operation does not remove a NIS+ directory; it deletes the directory from the serving list for this \fBrpc.nisd\fR, if appropriate.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBNIS_SERVSTATE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
Check access on all directories served by this \fBrpc.nisd\fR. If access is denied for a tag, "\fB<permission denied>\fR" is returned instead of the tag value.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBNIS_STATUS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
Same as for \fBNIS_SERVSTATE\fR.
.RE

.sp
.LP
Notice that older clients may not supply authentication information for some of the operations listed above. These clients are treated as "nobody" when access checking is performed.
.sp
.LP
The access control is implemented by creating a NIS+ table  called "\fBproto_op_access\fR" in each NIS+ directory to which  access control should be applied. The table can be manipulated using normal NIS+ commands. However, \fBnisopaccess\fR is the only supported interface for NIS+ operation access control.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
List the access control for a single operation, or for all operations that have access control enabled.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-r\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Remove access control for a certain operation on the  specified directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-v\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Verbose mode.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fREnabling  Access Control for the \fBNIS_PING\fR Operation
.sp
.LP
To enable access control for the \fBNIS_PING\fR operation on "\fBorg_dir.`domainname`.\fR" such that only the owner of the directory can perform a \fBNIS_PING\fR, or change the \fBNIS_PING\fR rights:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBnisopaccess org_dir NIS_PING o=rmcd,g=,w=,n=\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fRListing the Access to \fBNIS_PING\fR
.sp
.LP
To list the access to the \fBNIS_PING\fR operation for \fBorg_dir\fR:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBnisopaccess -l org_dir NIS_PING\fR

NIS_PING    ----rmcd--------    owner.dom.ain.  group.dom.ain.
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 3 \fRRemoving Access Control for \fBNIS_PING\fR
.sp
.LP
To remove access control for \fBNIS_PING\fR on \fBorg_dir\fR:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBnisopaccess -r org_dir NIS_PING\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB0\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt  
Successful operation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBother\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt  
Operation failed. The status is usually the return status from a NIS+ command such as \fBnistbladm\fR.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5)  for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWnisu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBNIS+\fR(1), \fBnischmod\fR(1), \fBnistbladm\fR(1), \fBrpc.nisd\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
NIS+ might not be supported in future releases of the Solaris operating system. Tools to aid the migration from NIS+ to LDAP are available in the current Solaris release. For more information, visit http://www.sun.com/directory/nisplus/transition.html.
