'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH nistbladm 1 "2 Dec 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
nistbladm \- NIS+ table administration command
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBnistbladm\fR \fB-a\fR | \fB-A\fR [\fB-D\fR \fIdefaults\fR] \fIcolname\fR = \fIvalue\fR... \fItablename\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBnistbladm\fR \fB-a\fR | \fB-A\fR [\fB-D\fR \fIdefaults\fR] \fIindexedname\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBnistbladm\fR \fB-c\fR [\fB-D\fR \fIdefaults\fR] [\fB-p\fR \fIpath\fR] [\fB-s\fR \fIsep\fR] \fItype\fR \fIcolname\fR = 
     [\fIflags\fR] [, \fIaccess\fR]... \fItablename\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBnistbladm\fR \fB-d\fR \fItablename\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBnistbladm\fR \fB-e\fR | \fB-E\fR \fIcolname\fR = \fIvalue\fR... \fIindexedname\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBnistbladm\fR \fB-m\fR \fIcolname\fR = \fIvalue\fR... \fIindexedname\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBnistbladm\fR \fB-r\fR | \fB-R\fR [\fIcolname\fR = \fIvalue\fR...] \fItablename\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBnistbladm\fR \fB-r\fR | \fB-R\fR \fIindexedname\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBnistbladm\fR \fB-u\fR [\fB-p\fR \fIpath\fR] [\fB-s\fR \fIsep\fR] [\fB-t\fR \fItype\fR] 
     [\fIcolname\fR = \fIaccess\fR...] \fItablename\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBnistbladm\fR command is used to administer  NIS+ tables. There are five primary operations that it performs: creating and deleting tables, adding entries to, modifying entries within, and removing entries from tables.
.sp
.LP
Though NIS+ does not place restrictions on the size of tables or entries, the size of data has an impact on the performance and the disk space requirements of the NIS+ server. NIS+ is not designed to store huge pieces of data, such as files; instead, pointers to files should be stored in NIS+.
.sp
.LP
NIS+ design is optimized to support 10,000 objects with a total size of 10M bytes. If the requirements exceed the above, it is suggested that the domain hierarchy be created, or the data stored in the tables be pointers to the actual data, instead of the data itself.
.sp
.LP
When creating tables, a table type, \fBtype\fR, and a list of column definitions must be provided.
.sp
.LP
\fBtype\fR is a string that is stored in the table and later used by the service to verify that entries being added to it are of the correct type.
.sp
.LP
Syntax for column definitions is:
.sp
.LP
\fIcolname\fR\fB=\fR[\fIflags\fR][,\fIaccess\fR]
.sp
.LP
\fIflags\fR is a combination of:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt  
Searchable. Specifies that searches can be done on the column's values (see \fBnismatch\fR(1)).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBI\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt  
Case-insensitive (only makes sense in combination with \fBS\fR). Specifies that searches should ignore case.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBC\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt  
Crypt. Specifies that the column's values should be encrypted.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBB\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt  
Binary data (does not make sense in combination with \fBS\fR). If not set, the column's values are expected to be null terminated ASCII strings.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBX\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt  
XDR encoded data (only makes sense in combination with \fBB\fR).
.RE

.sp
.LP
\fIaccess\fR is specified in the format as defined by the \fBnischmod\fR(1) command.
.sp
.LP
When manipulating entries, this command takes two forms of entry name.  The first uses a series of space separated  \fIcolname\fR=\fIvalue\fR pairs that specify column values in the entry. The second is a NIS+ indexed name, \fIindexedname\fR, of the form:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fB[ \fR\fIcolname\fR\fB=\fR\fIvalue\fR\fB, .\|.\|. ],\fR\fItablename\fR
.fi
.in -2

.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-a\fR \fB\|| A\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
Adds entries to a NIS+ table. The difference between the lowercase `a' and the uppercase `A' is in the treatment of preexisting entries. The entry's contents are specified by the  \fIcolumn\fR=\fIvalue\fR pairs on the command line. Values for all columns must be specified when adding entries to a table.
.sp
Normally, NIS+ reports an error if an attempt is made to add an entry to a table that would overwrite an entry that already exists. This prevents multiple parties from adding duplicate entries and having one of them get overwritten. If you wish to force the add, the uppercase `A' specifies that the entry is to be added, even if it already exists. This is analogous to a modify  operation on the entry.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-c\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
Creates a table named \fItablename\fR in the namespace. The table that is created must have at least one column and at least one column must be searchable.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-d\fR \fItablename\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
Destroys the table named \fItablename\fR. The table that is being destroyed must be empty. The table's contents can be deleted with the \fB-R\fR option below.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB\fR\fB-e\fR\fB\||E\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
Edits the entry in the table that is specified by \fIindexdname\fR. \fIindexdname\fR must uniquely identify a single entry. It is possible to edit the value in a column that would change the indexed name of an entry.
.sp
The change (\fIcolname\fR=\fIvalue\fR) may affect other entries in the table if the change results in an entry whose indexed name is different from \fIindexedname\fR and which matches that of another existing entry. In this case, the \fB-e\fR option will fail and an error will be reported. The \fB-E\fR option will force the replacement of the existing entry by the new entry (effectively removing two old entries and adding a new one).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-m\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
A synonym for \fB-E\fR. This option has been superseded by the \fB-E\fR option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB\fR\fB-r\fR\fB\||R\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
Removes entries from a table. The xentry is specified by either a series of  \fIcolumn\fR=\fIvalue\fR pairs on the command line, or an indexed name that is specified as \fIentryname\fR. The difference between the interpretation of the lowercase `r' versus the uppercase `R' is in the treatment of non-unique entry specifications. Normally the NIS+ server will disallow an attempt to remove an entry when the search criterion specified for that entry resolves to more than one entry in  the table. However, it is sometimes desirable to remove more than one entry, as when you are attempting to remove all of the entries from a table. In this case, using the uppercase `R' will force the NIS+ server to remove all entries matching the passed search criterion. If that criterion is null and no column values specified, then all entries in the table will be removed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-u\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
Updates attributes of a table. This allows the concatenation path (\fB-p\fR), separation character (specified with the (\fB-s\fR)), column access rights, and table type string (\fB-t\fR) of a table to be changed. Neither the number of columns, nor the columns that are searchable may be changed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-D\fR \fIdefaults\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
When creating objects, this option specifies a different set of defaults to be used during this operation. The \fIdefaults\fR string is a series of tokens separated by colons. These tokens represent the default values to be used for the generic object properties. All of the legal tokens are described below.  
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBttl=\fR\fBtime\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt  
This token sets the default time to live for objects that are created by this command. The value \fBtime\fR is specified in the format as defined by the \fBnischttl\fR(1) command. The default value is 12 hours.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBowner=\fR\fIownername\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt  
This token specifies that the \fBNIS+\fR principal \fIownername\fR should own the created object. Normally this value is the same as the principal who is executing the command.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBgroup=\fR\fIgroupname\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt  
This token specifies that the group \fIgroupname\fR should be the group owner for the object that is created.  The default value is \fINULL\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBaccess=\fR\fIrights\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt  
This token specifies the set of access rights that are to be granted for the given object. The value \fIrights\fR is specified in the format as defined by the  \fBnischmod\fR(1) command. The default value is \fB\(mi\|\(mi\|\(mi\|\(mirmcdr\(mi\|\(mi\|\(mir\(mi\|\(mi\|\(mi\fR\&.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR \fIpath\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
When creating or updating a table, this option specifies the table's search path. When a  \fBnis_list()\fR function is invoked, the user can specify the flag  \fBFOLLOW_PATH\fR to tell the client library to continue searching tables in the table's path if the search criteria used does not yield any entries. The path consists of an ordered list of table names, separated by colons. The names in the path must be fully qualified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR \fI sep\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
When creating or updating a table, this option specifies the table's separator character. The separator character is used by  \fBniscat\fR(1) when displaying tables on the standard output. Its purpose is to separate column data when the table is in \fBASCII\fR form. The default value is a space.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR \fItype\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
When updating a table, this option specifies the table's type string.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRCreating an Unmodifiable Table
.sp
.LP
This example creates a table named \fBhobbies\fR in the directory  \fBfoo.com.\fR of the type \fBhobby_tbl\fR with two searchable columns,  \fBname\fR and  \fBhobby\fR.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBnistbladm -c hobby_tbl name=S,\e
      a+r,o+m hobby=S,a+r hobbies.foo.com.\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The column \fBname\fR has read access for all (that is,  \fBowner\fR, \fBgroup\fR, and \fBworld\fR) and modify access for only the owner. The column \fBhobby\fR is readable by all, but not modifiable by anyone.

.sp
.LP
In this example, if the access rights had not been specified, the table's access rights would have come from either the standard defaults or the  \fBNIS_DEFAULTS\fR variable (see below).

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fRAdding Entries to the Table
.sp
.LP
To add entries to this table:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBnistbladm -a name=bob hobby=skiing hobbies.foo.com.\fR
example% \fBnistbladm -a name=sue hobby=skiing hobbies.foo.com.\fR
example% \fBnistbladm -a name=ted hobby=swimming hobbies.foo.com.\fR
 
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 3 \fRAdding the Concatenation Path
.sp
.LP
In the following example, the common root domain is \fBfoo.com\fR (NIS+ requires at least two components to define the root domain) and the concatenation path for the subdomains \fBbar\fR and \fBbaz\fR are added:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBnistbladm -u -p hobbies.bar.foo.com.:hobbies.baz.foo.com. \e
            hobbies\fR 
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 4 \fRDeleting Skiers from the List
.sp
.LP
To delete the skiers from our list:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBnistbladm -R hobby=skiing hobbies.foo.com.\fR 
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Note:  The use of the  \fB-r\fR option would fail because there are two entries with the value of \fBskiing\fR.

.LP
\fBExample 5 \fRNaming a Column with no Flags Set
.sp
.LP
To create a table with a column that is named with no flags set, you supply only the name and the equals (=) sign as follows:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBnistbladm -c notes_tbl name=S,a+r,o+m note=  notes.foo.com.\fR 
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
This example created a table, named \fInotes.foo.com.\fR, of type \fInotes_tbl\fR with two columns \fBname\fR and \fBnote\fR. The \fBnote\fR column is not searchable.

.LP
\fBExample 6 \fRProtecting Terminal Characters
.sp
.LP
When entering data for columns in the form of a \fIvalue\fR string, it is essential that terminal characters be protected by single or double quotes. These are the characters equals (=), comma (,), left bracket ([), right bracket (]), and space ( ). These characters are parsed by NIS+ within an indexed name. These characters are protected by enclosing the entire value in double quote (") characters as follows:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBnistbladm -a fullname="Joe User" nickname=Joe nicknames\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
If there is any doubt about how the string will be parsed, it is better to enclose it in quotes.

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBNIS_DEFAULTS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
This variable contains a defaults string that will be override the  NIS+ standard defaults. If the  \fB-D\fR switch is used those values will then override both the  \fBNIS_DEFAULTS\fR variable and the standard defaults.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBNIS_PATH\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
If this variable is set, and the NIS+ table name is not fully qualified, each directory specified will be searched until the table is found. See \fBnisdefaults\fR(1).
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt  
Successful operation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt  
Operation failed.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWnisu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBNIS+\fR(1), \fBniscat\fR(1), \fBnischmod\fR(1), \fBnischown\fR(1), \fBnischttl\fR(1), \fBnisdefaults\fR(1), \fBnismatch\fR(1), \fBnissetup\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
NIS+ might not be supported in future releases of the Solaris operating system. Tools to aid the migration from NIS+ to LDAP are available in the current Solaris release. For more information, visit http://www.sun.com/directory/nisplus/transition.html.
.SH WARNINGS
.sp
.LP
To modify one of the entries, say, for example, from "bob" to "robert":
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBnistbladm -m name=robert [name=bob],hobbies\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Notice that "\fB[name=bob],hobbies\fR" is an indexed name, and that the characters `[' (open bracket) and `]' (close bracket) are interpreted by the shell. When typing entry names in the form of  NIS+ indexed names, the name must be protected by using single quotes.
.sp
.LP
It is possible to specify a set of defaults such that you cannot read or modify the table object later.
