'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, Sun Microsystems, Inc.,  All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH rpm2cpio 1 "20 Aug 2001" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
rpm2cpio \- convert Red Hat Package (RPM) to cpio archive
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBrpm2cpio\fR [\fIfile\fR.rpm]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBrpm2cpio\fR utility converts the \fB\&.rpm\fR file specified as its sole argument to a \fBcpio\fR archive on standard output. (See NOTES.) If no argument is given, an rpm stream is read from standard input. In both cases, \fBrpm2cpio\fR will fail and print a usage message if the standard output is a terminal. Therefore, the output is usually redirected to a file or piped through the \fBcpio\fR(1) utility.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRConverting an rpm file
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBrpm2cpio Device3Dfx-1.1-2.src.rpm | cpio -itv\fR
CPIO archive found!
-rw-r--r--  1 root  root  2635 Sep 13 16:39 1998, 3dfx.gif
-rw-r--r--  1 root  root 11339 Sep 27 16:03 1998, Dev3Dfx.tar.gz
-rw-r--r--  1 root  root  1387 Sep 27 16:04 1998, Device3Dfx-1.1-2.spec
31 blocks
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fRConverting from standard input
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBrpm2cpio < Device3Dfx-1.1-2.src.rpm | cpio -itv\fR
CPIO archive found!
-rw-r--r--  1 root  root  2635 Sep 13 16:39 1998, 3dfx.gif
-rw-r--r--  1 root  root 11339 Sep 27 16:03 1998, Dev3Dfx.tar.gz
-rw-r--r--  1 root  root  1387 Sep 27 16:04 1998, Device3Dfx-1.1-2.spec
31 blocks
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWrpm
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBcpio\fR(1), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
\fBrpm2cpio\fR handles versions 3 and 4 \fBRPM\fRs.
