'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH sccs-rmdel 1 "2 Jul 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
sccs-rmdel, rmdel \- remove a delta from an SCCS file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBrmdel\fR \fB-r\fR\fIsid\fR \fIs.filename\fR...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBrmdel\fR utility removes the delta specified by the \fBSCCS\fR delta \fBID\fR (\fBSID\fR) supplied with \fB-r\fR. The delta to be removed must be the most recent (leaf) delta in its branch. In addition, the \fBSID\fR must \fInot\fR be that of a version checked out for editing: it must not appear in any entry of the version lock file (\fBp.\fRfile).
.sp
.LP
If you created the delta, or, if you own the file and directory and have write permission, you can remove it with \fBrmdel\fR.
.sp
.LP
If a directory name is used in place of the \fIs.filename\fR argument, the \fBrmdel\fR command applies to all \fBs.\fRfiles in that directory. Unreadable \fBs.\fRfiles produce an error; processing continues with the next file (if any). The use of `\fB\(mi\fR\&' as the \fIs.filename\fR argument indicates that the names of files are to be read from the standard input, one \fBs.\fRfile per line.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following option is supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-r\fR\fIsid\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt  
Remove the version corresponding to the indicated \fBSID\fR (delta).
.RE

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See \fBenviron\fR(5) for descriptions of the following environment variables that affect the execution of \fBrmdel\fR: \fBLANG\fR, \fBLC_ALL\fR, \fBLC_CTYPE\fR, \fBLC_MESSAGES\fR, and \fBNLSPATH\fR.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBp.\fR\fBfile\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
permissions file
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBs.\fR\fBfile\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
history file
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBz.\fR\fBfile\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
temporary copy of the \fBs.\fRfile
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWsprot
_
Interface StabilityStandard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsccs\fR(1), \fBsccs-admin\fR(1), \fBsccs-cdc\fR(1), \fBsccs-comb\fR(1), \fBsccs-delta\fR(1), \fBsccs-help\fR(1), \fBsccs-prs\fR(1), \fBsccs-prt\fR(1), \fBsccs-sccsdiff\fR(1), \fBsccs-unget\fR(1), \fBwhat\fR(1), \fBsccsfile\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBenviron\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.LP
Use the \fBSCCS\fR \fBhelp\fR command for explanations (see \fBsccs-help\fR(1)).
