'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 1998, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH sccs-help 1 "24 Feb 1998" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
sccs-help, help \- ask for help regarding SCCS error or warning messages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/ccs/bin/help\fR [\fIargument\fR]...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBhelp\fR utility retrieves information to further explain errors messages and warnings from \fBSCCS\fR commands. It also provides some information about \fBSCCS\fR command usage. If no arguments are given, \fBhelp\fR prompts for one.
.sp
.LP
An \fIargument\fR may be a message number (which normally appears in parentheses following each \fBSCCS\fR error or warning message), or an \fBSCCS\fR command name. \fBhelp\fR responds with an explanation of the message or a usage line for the command.
.sp
.LP
When all else fails, try `\fB/usr/ccs/bin/help  stuck\fR'.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/help\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt  
directory containing files of message text
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) 
.
\fBATTRIBUTE TYPE\fR\fBATTRIBUTE VALUE\fR
AvailabilitySUNWsprot
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsccs\fR(1), \fBsccs-admin\fR(1), \fBsccs-cdc\fR(1), \fBsccs-comb\fR(1), \fBsccs-delta\fR(1), \fBsccs-get\fR(1), \fBsccs-prs\fR(1), \fBsccs-prt\fR(1), \fBsccs-rmdel\fR(1), \fBsccs-sact\fR(1), \fBsccs-sccsdiff\fR(1), \fBsccs-unget\fR(1), \fBsccs-val\fR(1), \fBwhat\fR(1), \fBsccsfile\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5)
