'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH sccs-unget 1 "2 Jul 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
sccs-unget, unget \- undo a previous get of an SCCS file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBunget\fR [\fB-ns\fR] [\fB-r\fR\fIsid\fR] \fIs.filename\fR...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBunget\fR utility undoes the effect of a \fBget\fR\fB-e\fR command executed before the creation of the pending delta.
.sp
.LP
If a directory name is used in place of the \fIs.filename\fR argument, the \fBunget\fR command applies to all \fBs.\fRfiles in that directory. Unreadable \fBs.\fRfiles produce an error; processing continues with the next file (if any). The use of `\fB\(mi\fR\&' as the \fIs.filename\fR argument indicates that the names of files are to be read from the standard input, one \fBs.\fRfile per line.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-n\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt  
Retains the retrieved version, which is otherwise removed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt  
Suppress display of the \fBSCCS\fR delta \fBID\fR (SID).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-r\fR\fIsid\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt  
When multiple versions are checked out, this option specifies which pending delta to abort. A diagnostic results if the specified \fBSID\fR is ambiguous, or if it is necessary but omitted from the command line.
.RE

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See \fBenviron\fR(5) for descriptions of the following environment variables that affect the execution of \fBunget\fR: \fBLANG\fR, \fBLC_ALL\fR, \fBLC_COLLATE\fR, \fBLC_CTYPE\fR, \fBLC_MESSAGES\fR, and \fBNLSPATH\fR.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWsprot
_
Interface StabilityStandard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsccs\fR(1), \fBsccs-delta\fR(1), \fBsccs-get\fR(1), \fBsccs-help\fR(1), \fBsccs-prs\fR(1), \fBsccs-prt\fR(1), \fBsccs-rmdel\fR(1), \fBsccs-sact\fR(1), \fBsccs-sccsdiff\fR(1), \fBwhat\fR(1), \fBsccsfile\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBenviron\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.LP
Use the \fBSCCS\fR \fBhelp\fR command for explanations (see \fBsccs-help\fR(1)).
