'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH spline 1 "14 Sep 1992" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
spline \- interpolate smooth curve
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBspline\fR [\fB-aknpx\fR] ...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBspline\fR takes pairs of numbers from the standard input as abcissas and ordinates of a function. It produces a similar set, which is approximately equally spaced and includes the input set, on the standard output. The cubic spline output (R. W. Hamming, \fINumerical Methods for Scientists and Engineers,\fR2nd ed., 349ff) has two continuous derivatives, and sufficiently many points to look smooth when plotted, for example by \fBgraph\fR(1).
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-a\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Supply abscissas automatically (they are missing from the input); spacing is given by the next argument, or is assumed to be \fB1\fR if next argument is not a number.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-k\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
The constant \fIk\fR used in the boundary value computation
.sp
\fI(2nd deriv. at end) = k*(2nd deriv. next to end)\fR
.sp
is set by the next argument. By default \fIk\fR = 0.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-n\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Space output points so that approximately \fIn\fR intervals occur between the lower and upper \fIx\fR limits.  (Default \fIn\fR = 100.)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Make output periodic, that is, match derivatives at ends. First and last input values should normally agree.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-x\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Next 1 (or 2) arguments are lower (and upper) \fIx\fR limits.  Normally these limits are calculated from the data. Automatic abcissas start at lower limit (default 0).
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWesu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBgraph\fR(1), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
R. W. Hamming, \fINumerical Methods for Scientists and Engineers\fR, 2nd ed.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.LP
When data is not strictly monotonic in \fIx,\fR \fBspline\fR reproduces the input without interpolating extra points.
.SH BUGS
.sp
.LP
A limit of 1000 input points is enforced silently.
