'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH lx_systrace 7D "19 Sep 2006" "SunOS 5.11" "Devices"
.SH NAME
lx_systrace \- DTrace Linux system call tracing provider
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBlx_systrace\fR driver implements the DTrace \fBlxsyscall\fR dynamic tracing provider. The lxsyscall provider performs dynamic instrumentation to offer probes that fire whenever a thread enters or returns from a Linux system call entry point.
.sp
.LP
The \fBlx_systrace\fR driver is not a public interface and you access the instrumentation offered by this provider through DTrace. Refer to the \fISolaris Dynamic Tracing Guide\fR for a description of the public documented interfaces available for the DTrace facility and the probes offered by the \fBlxsyscall\fR provider.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for a description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWlxr
_
Interface StabilityPrivate
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBdtrace\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBlx\fR(5), \fBdtrace\fR(7D)
.sp
.LP
\fISolaris Dynamic Tracing Guide\fR
