'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 2006 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH SSAStringCpy 3SNMP "30 Apr 2006" "SunOS 5.11" "SNMP Library Functions"
.SH NAME
SSAStringCpy, SSAStringInit, SSAStringToChar, SSAStringZero \- Sun Solstice Enterprise Agent string helper functions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR ... ] \fIfile\fR ... \fB-lssasnmp\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR .. ]
#include <impl.h>

\fBvoid *\fR\fBSSAStringZero\fR(\fBString *\fR\fIstring\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBSSAStringInit\fR(\fBString *\fR\fIstring\fR, \fBuchar_t *\fR\fIchars\fR, \fBint\fR \fIlen\fR,
     \fBchar *\fR\fIerror_label\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBSSAStringCpy\fR(\fBString *\fR\fIstring1\fR, \fBString *\fR\fIstring2\fR, \fBchar *\fR\fIerror_label\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBchar *\fR\fBSSAStringToChar\fR(\fBString\fR \fIstring\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBSSAStringCpy()\fR function makes a deep copy of \fIstring2\fR to \fIstring1\fR. This function assumes that \fIstring1\fR has been processed by the \fBSSAStringZero()\fR function. Memory is allocated inside the \fIstring1\fR and the contents of \fIstring2\fR, not just the pointer, is copied to the \fIstring1\fR. If an error is encountered, an error message is stored in the \fIerror_label\fR buffer.
.sp
.LP
The \fBSSAStringInit()\fR function copies the char array from \fIchars\fR to the string instance with the specified length \fIlen\fR. This function assumes that the string instance has been processed by the \fBSSAStringZero()\fR function or no memory is allocated inside the string instance. If an error is encountered, an error message is stored in the \fIerror_label\fR buffer.
.sp
.LP
The \fBSSAStringToChar()\fR function returns a temporary char array buffer for printing purposes.
.sp
.LP
The \fBSSAStringZero()\fR function frees the memory inside of the String instance, but not the string object itself.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The \fBSSAStringInit()\fR and \fBSSAStringCpy()\fR functions return \fB0\fR if successful and \fB\(mi1\fR if error.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityObsolete
_
MT-LevelUnsafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBattributes\fR(5)
