'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2000, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH apache 1M "8 Aug 2000" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
apache \- Apache hypertext transfer protocol server overview
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBapache\fR consists of a main server daemon, loadable server modules, some additional support utilities, configuration files, and documentation. 
.SH FILES
.sp
.LP
The \fBapache\fR \fBHTTPD\fR server is integrated with Solaris. 
.sp
.LP
The following files specify the installation locations for \fBapache\fR: 
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/etc/apache\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt  
Contains server configuration files. 
.sp
A newly-installed server must be manually configured before use. Typically this involves copying \fBhttpd.conf-example\fR to the \fBhttpd.conf\fR file and making local configuration adjustments.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/usr/apache/bin\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt  
Contains the \fBhttpd\fR executable as well as other utility programs.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/usr/apache/htdocs\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt  
Contains the Apache manual in \fBHTML\fR format. This documentation is accessible by way of a link on the server test page that gets installed upon fresh installation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/usr/apache/include\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt  
Contains the Apache header files, which are needed for building various optional server extensions with \fBapxs\fR(8)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB/usr/apache/jserv\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt  
Contains documention for the \fBmod_jserv\fR java servlet module. Documention can be read with a web browser using the url: 
.sp
.in +2
.nf
file:/usr/apache/jserv/docs/index.html
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/usr/apache/libexec\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt  
Contains loadable modules (\fBDSO\fRs) supplied with the server. Any modules which are added using \fBapxs\fR(8)are also copied into this directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/usr/apache/man\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt  
Contains man pages for the server, utility programs, and \fBmod_perl\fR. 
.sp
Add this directory to your \fBMANPATH\fR to read the Apache man pages. See \fBNOTES\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/usr/apache/perl5\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt  
Contains the modules and library files used by the \fBmod_perl\fR extension to Apache. 
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/var/apache/cgi-bin\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt  
Default location for the \fBCGI\fR scripts. 
.sp
This can be changed by altering the \fBhttpd.conf\fR file and restarting the server. 
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/var/apache/htdocs\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt  
Default document root. 
.sp
This can be changed by altering the \fBhttpd.conf\fR file and restarting the server.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/var/apache/icons\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt  
Icons used by the server.
.sp
This normally shouldn't need to be changed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/var/apache/logs\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt  
Contains server log files. 
.sp
The formats, names, and locations of the files in this directory can be altered by various configuration directives in the \fBhttpd.conf\fR file. 
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/var/apache/proxy\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt  
Directory used to cache pages if the caching feature of \fBmod_proxy\fR is enabled in the \fBhttpd.conf\fR file. 
.sp
The location of the cache can also be changed by changing the proxy configuration in the \fBhttpd.conf\fR file. 
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWapchr
_
SUNWapchu
_
SUNWapchd
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
http://www.apache.org
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
In addition to the documentation and man pages included with Solaris, more information is available at http://www.apache.org
.sp
.LP
The Apache man pages are provided with the programming modules. To view the manual pages for the Apache modules with the man command, add \fB/usr/apache/man\fR to the \fBMANPATH\fR environment variable. See \fBman\fR(1) for more information. Running \fBcatman\fR(1M) on the Apache manual pages is not supported. 
