'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2010, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License"). You may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License. When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE. If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH hotplug 1M "11 Feb 2010" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
hotplug \- configure hotplug connectors and ports
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBhotplug\fR list [\fB-l\fR] [\fB-v\fR] [\fIpath\fR [\fIconnection\fR]]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBhotplug\fR online \fIpath\fR \fIport\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBhotplug\fR offline [\fB-f\fR] [\fB-q\fR] \fIpath\fR \fIport\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBhotplug\fR enable \fIpath\fR \fIconnector\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBhotplug\fR disable [\fB-f\fR] [\fB-q\fR] \fIpath\fR \fIconnector\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBhotplug\fR poweron \fIpath\fR \fIconnector\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBhotplug\fR poweroff [\fB-f\fR] [\fB-q\fR] \fIpath\fR \fIconnector\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBhotplug\fR set \fB-o\fR \fIoptions\fR \fIpath\fR \fIconnector\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBhotplug\fR get \fB-o\fR \fIoptions\fR \fIpath\fR \fIconnector\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBhotplug\fR \fB-?\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBhotplug\fR command is used to manage hotplug connections. A connection can be a connector or port. A hotplug connector is a representation of a physical point in the system where components can be inserted or removed. A hotplug port is a representation of a logical point in the system device tree where the connection of a device to the system is managed.
.sp
.LP
The \fBhotplug\fR command only supports hotplug operations on hotplug connectors for PCI Express buses and PCI buses that implement the Standard PCI Hotplug feature. Hotplug ports on PCI Expresss and PCI buses in systems with PCI Express fabrics are also supported. Additional buses may be supported in the future.
.sp
.LP
The \fBhotplug\fR command operates on the following kinds of objects:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBpath\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Hotplug connectors and ports are integrated into the Solaris device tree. The names of connectors and ports are unique relative only to their bus controller. A device path is required to uniquely reference a connector or port.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBconnector\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If a hardware component supports being physically inserted or removed, then a hotplug connector represents the location where this action may occur. When a connector exists, it has a hierarchy of ports and device nodes that depend upon it.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBport\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
All device nodes can be virtually hotplugged, even if their hardware does not support physical hotplugging. A hotplug port exists between a device node and its parent node in the system device tree. It represents the location where the device node and its dependents can be managed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBconnection\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A hotplug connection is a generic term to refer to either a hotplug connector or a hotplug port.
.RE

.sp
.LP
Hotplug connectors and ports are managed according to a state model. The \fBhotplug\fR command can list information about the hotplug connections in a system, or it can initiate change of state operations on specific hotplug connections.
.sp
.LP
Hotplug connectors can be in the following states:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBempty\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A component is not physically inserted in the connector.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBpresent\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A component is physically inserted in the connector, but the component is powered off. The component is not in use.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBpowered\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A component is physically inserted in the connector, and the component is powered on. The component is disabled and is not in use.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBenabled\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A component is physically inserted in the connector. The component is powered on and has been probed and tested. The component is enabled and devices that represent its functions can be used.
.RE

.sp
.LP
Hotplug ports can be in the following states:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBport-empty\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
No device exists for the hotplug port.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBport-present\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A device exists for the hotplug port, but the device has not been probed and it has no attached device driver. The device is not in use.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBoffline\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A device exists for the hotplug port, and the device has been probed. A device driver is not attached, and the device is not in use.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBonline\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A device exists for the hotplug port, and its device driver is fully attached. The device is in use.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBmaintenance\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A device exists for the hotplug port, and its device driver is fully attached. The device is in use, but not fully operational. A maintenance or fault management operation is affecting the device.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The \fBhotplug\fR command can also access bus private properties for each hotplug connector. The current values of bus private properties can be displayed. New values for each bus private property can be set directly.
.SH SUB-COMMANDS
.sp
.LP
The following subcommands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBlist\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Show information for hotplug connectors, ports, and their associated devices. Hotplug connectors and hotplug ports are integrated into the Solaris device tree hierarchy. The \fBlist\fR subcommand therefore displays the hierarchy of device nodes with additional information included to show the locations of hotplug connectors and hotplug ports. The names of hotplug connectors are enclosed in square brackets, and the names of hotplug ports are enclosed in angled brackets. The current state of each hotplug connection is displayed next to its name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBonline\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Change the state of a hotplug port to the \fBonline\fR state.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBoffline\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Change the state of a hotplug port to the \fBoffline\fR state.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBenable\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Change the state of a hotplug connector to the \fBenabled\fR state. All of the hotplug connector's dependent ports will be automatically probed and initialized into the \fBonline\fR state.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBdisable\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Change the state of a hotplug connector from the \fBenabled\fR state to the \fBpowered\fR state. All dependent ports that are in the \fBonline\fR state will first be transitioned to the \fBport-present\fR state.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBpoweron\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Change the state of a hotplug connector from the \fBpresent\fR state to the \fBpowered\fR state.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBpoweroff\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Change the state of a hotplug connector from the \fBpowered\fR or \fBenabled\fR state to the \fBpresent\fR state. All dependent ports that are in the \fBonline\fR state will first be transitioned to the \fBport-present\fR state, and will then be removed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBset\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set bus-specific properties for a hotplug connector. The specified option string is a bus specific string of name and value pairs, as could be parsed by \fBgetsubopt\fR(3C). The names and values will be passed directly to the bus controller that manages the specified hotplug connector to perform a bus-specific function.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBget\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display the current values of bus specific properties for a hotplug connector. The specified option string is a bus specific string of named properties, as could be parsed by \fBgetsubopt\fR(3C). The names will be passed directly to the bus controller to specify which properties should be returned. The current values of each named property will then be displayed.
.RE

.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR, \fB--list-path\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Show full paths to connections and device nodes. By default, the \fBlist\fR subcommand shows hotplug connectors, ports, and devices in the format of a tree. This option enables the display of full paths to each connection and device node.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-v\fR, \fB--verbose\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Show verbose usage details. By default, the \fBlist\fR subcommand shows only hotplug connectors, ports, and devices. This option enables the display of more detailed information about how the devices are currently consumed. Examples include mounted filesystems or plumbed network interfaces associated with individual devices.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR, \fB--force\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Force the operation. Some change state operations that impact resources currently in use will fail with a warning. A forced operation will attempt to ignore these warnings and proceed.
.sp
This option should be used with extreme caution.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-q\fR, \fB--query\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Query the operation. Instead of actually performing a change state operation, perform a test to predict if the operation would succeed or fail. If it would fail, show the error messages that would be expected if the operation had really been attempted.
.sp
It is not possible to predict every failure. An operation that succeeds during a query could still fail for another reason when actually attempted.
.sp
This option will not actually change the state of the system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-o\fR \fIoptions\fR, \fB--\fR=\fIoptions\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify bus-specific properties for a \fBset\fR or \fBget\fR command. The options string conforms to the \fBgetsubopt\fR(3C) syntax convention.
.sp
For the \fBget\fR subcommand, there are two special options that can be used. The special options value of \fBhelp\fR will display all supported properties and their possible values. The special options value of \fBall\fR will display the current value of all supported properties.
.sp
For the \fBset\fR subcommand, there is one special option that can be used. The special options value of \fBhelp\fR will display all supported properties which can be set and their possible values.
.sp
See "Notes" section for the properties supported by bus controllers.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-?\fR, \fB--help\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display a brief help message on proper use of the command.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRShowing All Hotplug Connections
.sp
.LP
The following command shows all hotplug connections:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBhotplug list -v\fR
pci@0,0
        <pci.2,1> (ONLINE)
         pci108e,534a@2,1
                 [pci30] (EMPTY)
        <pci.e,0> (ONLINE)
         pci10de,5d@e
                 <pci.b,0> (ONLINE)
                 display@b
                 [NEM0] (ENABLED)
                 <pci.a,0> (ONLINE)
                 pci108e,534a@a,0
                         { Network interface nge0 }
                         { nge0: hosts IP addresses: 10.0.0.1 }
                 <pci.a,1> (MAINTENANCE)
                 pci108e,534a@a,1
                 [NEM1] (EMPTY)
         <pci.c,0> (OFFLINE)
                pci108e,534a@4
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
To show the full paths of hotplug connections and devices, enter the following command:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBhotplug list -l\fR
/pci@0,0 <pci.2,1> (ONLINE)
/pci@0,0/pci108e,534a@2,1 [pci30] (EMPTY)
/pci@0,0 pci.e,0> (ONLINE)
/pci@0,0/pci10de,5d@e <pci.b,0> (ONLINE)
/pci@0,0/pci10de,5d@e/display@b
/pci@0,0/pci10de,5d@e [NEM0] (ENABLED)
/pci@0,0/pci10de,5d@e <pci.a,0> (ONLINE)
/pci@0,0/pci10de,5d@e/pci108e,534a@a,0
/pci@0,0/pci10de,5d@e <pci.a,1> (MAINTENANCE)
/pci@0,0/pci10de,5d@e/pci108e,534a@a,0
/pci@0,0/pci10de,5d@e [NEM1] (EMPTY)
/pci@0,0 pci.c,0> (OFFLINE)
/pci@0,0/pci108e,534a@4
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fRReporting Failure During State Change Operation
.sp
.LP
If a change of state operation fails, an explanation is displayed to describe the failure. An attempt to offline a hotplug port with dependent devices that are currently in use by the system might fail as follows:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBhotplug offline /pci@0,0/pci10de,5d@e pci.a,0\fR
ERROR: devices or resources are busy.
pci108e,534a@a,0:
    { Network interface nge0 }
    { nge0: hosts IP addresses: 10.0.0.1 }
    { Plumbed IP Address }
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 3 \fRDisplaying Bus-Specific Properties and Values
.sp
.LP
The following command displays all supported bus-specific properties and their possible values:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBhotplug get -o help /pci@0,0 pci.2,1\fR
power_led=<on|off|blink>
fault_led=<on|off|blink>
active_led=<on|off|blink>
attn_led=<on|off|blink>
card_type=<type description>
board_type=<type description>
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 4 \fRDisplaying Bus-Specific Options
.sp
.LP
The following command displays the card type and the current state of the Power LED of a PCI hotplug connector:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBhotplug get -o card_type,power_led /pci@0,0 pci.2,1\fR
card_type=fibre
power_led=on
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 5 \fRSetting a Bus-Specific Property
.sp
.LP
The following command turns on the attention LED of a PCI hotplug connector:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBhotplug set -o attn_led=on /pci@0,0 pci.2,1\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB1\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Invalid command line options were specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB2\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The specified path or connection does not exist.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB3\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A fatal error occurred. One or more error messages are displayed on standard error.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB4\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The hotplug service is not available.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBcfgadm\fR(1M), \fBhotplugd\fR(1M), \fBgetsubopt\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.LP
The following error message is displayed on systems that do not have any supported I/O buses:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
ERROR: there are no connections to display.
(See hotplug(1m) for more information.)
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
If this error message is seen, note that the system might still have other I/O devices that support hotplugging, through the \fBcfgadm\fR(1M) command instead of \fBhotplug\fR.
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The \fBhotplug\fR service (FMRI \fBsvc:/system/hotplug\fR) must be enabled as a prerequisite for using the \fBhotplug\fR command. See \fBhotplugd\fR(1M).
.sp
.LP
The authorization \fBsolaris.hotplug.modify\fR must be granted in order to perform change-of-state operations. Alternatively, the rights profile "Hotplug Management" can be granted, which includes that authorization.
.sp
.LP
Verbose usage information is gathered from the RCM framework. Its format and content is subject to change.
.sp
.LP
The following bus specific properties are supported in PCI bus controllers:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBpower_led\fR | \fBfault_led\fR | \fBattn_led\fR | \fBactive_led\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
States of a specific LED of a slot. The value could be \fBon\fR, \fBoff\fR, or \fBblink\fR.
.sp
They can all be used with \fBget\fR subcommand, but only property \fBattn_led\fR can be used with \fBset\fR subcommand.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBcard_type\fR | \fBboard_type\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Type of a card or board of a slot.
.sp
They can all be used with \fBget\fR subcommand, but neither can be used with \fBset\fR subcommand.
.RE

