'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH mdlogd 1M "3 Jun 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
mdlogd \- Solaris Volume Manager daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBmdlogd\fR 
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBmdlogd\fR implements a simple daemon that watches the system console looking for messages written by the Solaris Volume Manger. When a Solaris Volume Manager message is detected, \fBmdlogd\fR sends a generic SNMP trap.
.sp
.LP
To enable traps, you must configure \fBmdlogd\fR into the SNMP framework. See \fI\fR.
.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
\fBmdlogd\fR implements the following SNMP MIB:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
SOLARIS-VOLUME-MGR-MIB DEFINITIONS ::= BEGIN
        IMPORTS
                 enterprises FROM RFC1155-SMI
                 DisplayString FROM SNMPv2-TC;

        -- Sun Private MIB for Solaris Volume Manager


        sun       OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { enterprises 42 }
        sunSVM       OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { sun 104 }

        -- this is actually just the string from /dev/log that
        -- matches the md: regular expressions.
        -- This is an interim SNMP trap generator to provide
        -- information until a more complete version is available.

        -- this definition is a formalization of the old
        -- Solaris DiskSuite mdlogd trap mib.

        svmOldTrapString OBJECT-TYPE
                        SYNTAX DisplayString (SIZE (0..255))
                        ACCESS read-only
                        STATUS mandatory
                        DESCRIPTION
                        "This is the matched string that
                         was obtained from /dev/log."
        ::= { sunSVM 1 }

        -- SVM Compatibility ( error trap )

        svmNotice        TrapTRAP-TYPE
                        ENTERPRISE sunSVM
                        VARIABLES { svmOldTrapString }
                        DESCRIPTION
                                "SVM error log trap for NOTICE.
                                 This matches 'NOTICE: md:'"
        ::= 1

        svmWarningTrap  TRAP-TYPE
                        ENTERPRISE sunSVM
                        VARIABLES { svmOldTrapString }
                        DESCRIPTION
                                "SVM error log trap for WARNING..
                                 This matches 'WARNING: md:'"
        ::= 2

        svmPanicTrap    TRAP-TYPE
                        ENTERPRISE sunSVM
                        VARIABLES { svmOldTrapString }
                        DESCRIPTION
                                "SVM error log traps for PANIC..
                                This matches 'PANIC: md:'"
        ::= 3
END
.fi
.in -2

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWlvma, SUNWlvmr
_
Interface StabilityObsolete
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsnmpdx\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
\fI\fR
