'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2004  Internet Systems Consortium, Inc. ("ISC")  Copyright (C) 2000-2002  Internet Software Consortium.   Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any  purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above 
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.   THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND ISC DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH  REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY  AND FITNESS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL ISC BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT,  INDIRECT,
.\" OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM  LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE  OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR  PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.TH named-checkconf 1M "24 Dec 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
named-checkconf \- named configuration file syntax checking tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBnamed-checkconf\fR [\fB-vjz\fR] [\fB-t\fR \fIdirectory\fR] \fIfilename\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBnamed-checkconf\fR utility checks the syntax, but not the semantics, of a named configuration file.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR \fIdirectory\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
Change the root directory to \fIdirectory\fR so that include directives in the configuration file are processed as if run by a named configuration whose root directory has been similarly changed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-v\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
Print the version of the \fBnamed-checkconf\fR program and exit.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-z\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
Perform a test load of the master zones found in \fBnamed.conf\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-j\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
When loading a zonefile, read the journal if it exists.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIfilename\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt  
The name of the configuration file to be checked. If not specified, it defaults to \fB/etc/named.conf\fR.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt  
No errors were detected.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt  
An error was detected.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWbind
_
Interface StabilityExternal
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBnamed\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
\fIBIND 9 Administrator Reference Manual\fR, available at the ISC web site.
