'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH rpc.nisd 1M "13 Aug 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
rpc.nisd, nisd \- NIS+ service daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/rpc.nisd\fR [\fB-ACDFhlv\fR] [\fB-Y\fR [\fB-B\fR [\fB-t\fR \fInetid\fR]]] 
     [\fB-d\fR \fIdictionary\fR] [\fB-L\fR \fIload\fR] [\fB-S\fR \fIlevel\fR] [\fB-m\fR \fImappingfile\fR] 
     [\fB-x\fR \fIattribute=value\fR]... [\fB-z\fR \fInumber\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBrpc.nisd\fR daemon is an RPC service that implements the NIS+ service. This daemon must be running on all machines that serve a portion of the NIS+ namespace.
.sp
.LP
\fBrpc.nisd\fR is usually started from a system startup script.
.sp
.LP
The \fB-B\fR option causes \fBrpc.nisd\fR to start an auxiliary process, \fBrpc.nisd_resolv\fR, which provides ypserv compatible DNS forwarding for NIS host requests. \fBrpc.nisd_resolv\fR can also be started independently. See \fBrpc.nisd_resolv\fR(1M) for more information on using \fBrpc.nisd_resolv\fR independently.
.sp
.LP
The \fB/etc/default/rpc.nisd\fR file contains the following default parameter settings. See \fBFILES\fR.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBENABLE_NIS_YP_EMULATION\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  
Specifies whether the server is put into NIS (YP) compatibility mode. \fBENABLE_NIS_YP_EMULATION=YES\fR is equivalent to the \fB-Y\fR command-line option. The default value for \fBENABLE_NIS_YP_EMULATION\fR is \fBNO\fR.
.RE

.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-A\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt  
Authentication verbose mode. The daemon logs all the authentication related activities to \fBsyslogd\fR(1M) with \fBLOG_INFO\fR priority.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-B\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt  
Provide ypserv compatible DNS forwarding for NIS host requests. The DNS resolving process, \fBrpc.nisd_resolv\fR, is started and controlled by \fBrpc.nisd\fR. This option requires that the \fB/etc/resolv.conf\fR file be setup for communication with a DNS nameserver. The \fBnslookup\fR utility can be used to verify communication with a DNS nameserver. See \fBresolv.conf\fR(4) and \fBnslookup\fR(1M). 
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-C\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt  
Open diagnostic channel on \fB/dev/console\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-D\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt  
Debug mode. Do not fork.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-d\fR \fIdictionary\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt  
Specify an alternate dictionary for the \fBNIS+\fR database. The primary use of this option is for testing. Note that the string is not interpreted, rather it is simply passed to the \fBdb_initialize\fR function.>
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-F\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt  
Force the server to do a checkpoint of the database when it starts up. Forced checkpoints may be required when the server is low on disk space. This option removes updates from the transaction log that have propagated to all of the replicas.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-h\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt  
Print list of options.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-L\fR \fInumber\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt  
Specify the ``load'' the \fBNIS+\fR service is allowed to place on the server. The load is specified in terms of the \fInumber\fR of child processes that the server may spawn. The value of \fInumber\fR must be at least 1 for the callback functions to work correctly. The default is 128.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-m\fR \fImappingfile\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt  
Specify the name of a configuration file that maps NIS+ objects (especially tables and columns) to LDAP (entries and attributes). See \fBNIS+LDAPmapping\fR(4). The default path is \fB/var/nis\fR. The default mapping file is \fBNIS+LDAPmapping\fR. If this file exists, the \fBrpc.nisd\fR daemon will map data to and from LDAP. A template mapping file that covers the normal NIS+ directories and tables is installed as \fB/var/nis/NIS+LDAPmapping.template\fR.
.sp
A NIS+ object must have a valid mapping entry in the mapping file in order to have data for that table read from or written to the LDAP repository.
.sp
The \fBrpc.nisd\fR(4) file contains specifications for LDAP server addresses, LDAP authentication method, and the like. See \fBNIS+LDAPmapping\fR(4) for an overview of the setup you need to map NIS+ data to or from LDAP.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-S\fR \fIlevel\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt  
Set the authorization security level of the service. The argument is a number between 0 and 2. By default, the daemon runs at security level 2. 
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt  
Security level 0 is designed to be used for testing and initial setup of the NIS+ namespace. When running at level 0, the daemon does not enforce any access controls. Any client is allowed to perform any operation, including updates and deletions.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt  
At security level 1, the daemon accepts both  \fBAUTH_SYS\fR and \fBAUTH_DES\fR credentials for authenticating clients and authorizing them to perform NIS+ operations. This is not a secure mode of operation since \fBAUTH_SYS\fR credentials are easily forged.  It should not be used on networks in which any untrusted users may potentially have access.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB2\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt  
At security level 2, the daemon only accepts authentication using the security mechanisms configured by \fBnisauthconf\fR(1M). The default security mechanism is \fBAUTH_DES\fR. Security level 2 is the default if the \fB-S\fR option is not used.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR \fInetid\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt  
Use \fInetid\fR as the transport for communication between \fBrpc.nisd\fR and \fBrpc.nisd_resolv\fR. The default transport is \fBticots\fR(7D) ( \fBtcp\fR on SunOS 4.x systems).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-v\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt  
Verbose. With this option, the daemon sends a running narration of what it is doing to the syslog daemon (see \fBsyslogd\fR(1M)) at \fBLOG_INFO\fR priority. This option is most useful for debugging problems with the service. See also \fB-A\fR option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-x\fR \fIattribute=value\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt  
Specify the value of the named \fIattribute\fR. Attributes that control the NIS+ to LDAP mapping operation are derived as follows:
.RS +4
.TP
1.
Retrieve from LDAP.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
2.
Override with values from the \fImappingfile\fR, if any. See the \fB-m\fR option.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
3.
Override with values from the command line \fB-x\fR options.
.RE
See \fBNIS+LDAPmapping\fR(4) and \fBrpc.nisd\fR(4) for the recognized attributes and their syntax.
.sp
As a special case, you can use the \fBnisplusLdapConfig*\fR attributes to derive additional information from LDAP. You can only specify the \fBnisplusLdapConfig*\fR attributes in \fBrpc.nisd\fR(4) or by means of the command line.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-Y\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt  
Put the server into NIS (YP) compatibility mode. When operating in this mode, the NIS+ server will respond to NIS Version 2 requests using the version 2 protocol. Because the YP protocol is not authenticated, only those items that have read access to nobody (the unauthenticated request) will be visible through the V2 protocol. It supports only the standard Version 2 maps in this mode (see \fB-B\fR option and \fBNOTES\fR in \fBypfiles\fR(4)). See \fBFILES\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-z\fR \fInumber\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt  
Specify the maximum RPC record size that can be used over connection oriented transports. The default is 9000 bytes. If you specify a size less than the default value, the default value will be used instead.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRSetting up the NIS+ Service
.sp
.LP
The following example sets up the NIS+ service.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBrpc.nisd\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fRSetting Up NIS+ Service Emulating YP With DNS Forwarding
.sp
.LP
The following example sets up the NIS+ service, emulating YP with DNS forwarding.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBrpc.nisd -YB\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 3 \fRSpecifying NIS+ and LDAP Mapping Information
.sp
.LP
The following example shows how to specify that all additional NIS+ and LDAP mapping information should be retrieved from DN "dc=x,dc=y,dc=z", from the LDAP server at IP address 1.2.3.4, port 389. The examples uses the simple authentication method and the \fBcn=nisplusAdmin,ou=People,\fR proxy user. The \fB-m\fR option is omitted for clarity in this example..

.sp
.in +2
.nf
-x nisplusLDAPconfigDN=dc=x,dc=y,dc=z \e
-x nisplusLDAPconfigPreferredServerList=127.0.0.1:389 \e
-x nisplusLDAPconfigAuthenticationMethod=simple \e
-x nisplusLDAPconfigProxyUser=cn=nisplusAdmin,ou=People, \e
-x nisplusLDAPconfigProxyPassword=xyzzy
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBNETPATH\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
The transports that the NIS+ service will use can be limited by setting this environment variable. See \fBnetconfig\fR(4).
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/var/nis/data/parent.object\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This file describes the namespace that is logically above the NIS+ namespace. The most common type of parent object is a DNS object. This object contains contact information for a server of that domain.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/var/nis/data/root.object\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This file describes the root object of the NIS+ namespace. It is a standard XDR-encoded NIS+ directory object that can be modified by authorized clients using the \fBnis_modify\fR(3NSL) interface.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/etc/default/rpc.nisd\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
LDAP connection and general \fBrpc.nisd\fR configuration. You can override some of the settings by command-line options.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/var/nis/NIS+LDAPmapping\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Default path for LDAP mapping file. See the discussion of the \fB-m\fR option.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWnisu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsvcs\fR(1), \fBnis_cachemgr\fR(1M), \fBnisauthconf\fR(1M), \fBnisinit\fR(1M), \fBnissetup\fR(1M), \fBnisldapmaptest\fR(1M), \fBnslookup\fR(1M), \fBrpc.nisd_resolv\fR(1M), \fBrpc.nispasswdd\fR(1M), \fBsvcadm\fR(1M), \fBsyslogd\fR(1M), \fBnis_modify\fR(3NSL), \fBNIS+LDAPmapping\fR(4), \fBnetconfig\fR(4), \fBnisfiles\fR(4), \fB resolv.conf\fR(4), \fBrpc.nisd\fR(4), \fBypfiles\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBsmf\fR(5), \fBticots\fR(7D)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
NIS+ might not be supported in future releases of the Solaris Operating system. Tools to aid the migration from NIS+ to LDAP are available in the current Solaris release. For more information, visit http://www.sun.com/directory/nisplus/transition.html.
.sp
.LP
The \fBrpc.nisd\fR service is managed by the service management facility, \fBsmf\fR(5), under the service identifier:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
svc:/network/rpc/nisplus:default
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Administrative actions on this service, such as enabling, disabling, or requesting restart, can be performed using \fBsvcadm\fR(1M). The service's status can be queried using the \fBsvcs\fR(1) command.
