'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License. When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with
.\" the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH tzreload 1M "28 Oct 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
tzreload \- notify timezone update
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/tzreload\fR [\fB-a\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBtzreload\fR command notifies active (running) processes to reread timezone information. The timezone information is cached in each process, absent a \fBtzreload\fR command, is never reread until a process is restarted. In response to a \fBtzreload\fR command, active processes reread the current timezone information at the next call to \fBctime\fR(3C) and \fBmktime\fR(3C). By default, the \fBtzreload\fR notification is sent to the processes within the current zone.
.sp
.LP
In addition to notifying active processes, the \fBtzreload\fR command also notifies cron(1M), to reinitialize the job scheduler with the new timezone information.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-a\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Notify processes in all zones.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/usr/share/lib/zoneinfo\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Standard zone information directory.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBcron\fR(1M), \fBzdump\fR(1M), \fBzic\fR(1M), \fBzoneadm\fR(1M), \fBctime\fR(3C), \fBmktime\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
\fBrpc.cmsd(1M)\fR, part of the CDE man page set.
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Although \fBtzreload\fR reinitializes \fBcron\fR(1M), applications that are affected by timezone changes still need to be restarted or reinitialized if they do not reread the new timezone information before timezone changes take place.
