'\" te
.\" Copyright 2005-2006 Red Hat, Inc. Jeremy Katz (katzj@redhat.com) Option handling added by Andrew Puch (apuch@redhat.com).
.\" This manual page is based in part on material found at fedoraproject.org.
.\" This software may be freely redistributed under the terms of the GNU general public license. You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA
.\" 02139, USA.
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License. When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with
.\" the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH virt-clone 1M "14 Feb 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
virt-clone \- clone virtual machine images
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/virt-clone\fR [\fIoption\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBvirt-clone\fR utility is a command line tool for cloning existing virtual machine images. \fBvirt-clone\fR copies disk images of an existing virtual machine and defines a new guest with an identical virtual hardware configuration. Elements that require uniqueness are updated to avoid a clash between old and new guests.
.sp
.LP
With appropriate command-line arguments, \fBvirt-clone\fR can run completely unattended, with the guest automatically starting itself as well. This allows for easy automation of guest installs.
.sp
.LP
If you do not specify options to \fBvirt-clone\fR, the command runs interactively, prompting for input as required.
.sp
.LP
To run \fBvirt-clone\fR, you must become superuser or assume the Primary Administrator role.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported: 
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB--connect\fR=\fIURI\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Connect to the hypervisor at \fIURI\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-d\fR, \fB--debug\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display debugging information when running the install process.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR \fIdisk_image\fR, \fB--file\fR=\fIdisk_image\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Path to the file, disk partition, or logical volume to use as the backing store for the guest's virtual disk. If the original guest has multiple disks, this parameter must be repeated multiple times, once per disk in the original virtual machine.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB--force-copy\fR=\fItarget\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Force to copy devices (for example, if \fBhdc\fR is a read-only CD-ROM device, specify \fB--force-copy\fR=\fBhdc\fR)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-h\fR, \fB--help\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display the help message and exit.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-m\fR \fImac_addr\fR, \fB--mac\fR=\fImac_addr\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Fixed MAC address for the guest. If the keyword \fBrandom\fR is specified, a random address will be used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-n\fR \fIname\fR, \fB--name\fR=\fIname\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Name of the new guest virtual machine instance. This must be unique among all guests known to the hypervisor on this machine, including those not currently active. To redefine an existing guest, use the \fBvirsh\fR(1M) tool to shut it down and delete it prior to running \fBvirt-clone\fR. This parameter will be prompted for if omitted on the command line.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB--nonsparse\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Do not use a sparse file for the clone's disk image.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-o\fR \fIoriginal_guest\fR, \fB--original\fR=\fIoriginal_guest\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Name or UUID for the original guest to be cloned. This guest must be shut down since it is not possible to safely clone active guests.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB--original-xml\fR=\fIfilename\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The \fBlibvirt\fR guest XML file to use as the original guest. The guest does not need to be defined on the \fBlibvirt\fR connection.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB--preserve-data\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Preserve a new file to use as the disk image for the new guest.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-u\fR \fIUUID\fR, \fB--uuid\fR=\fIUUID\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
UUID for the guest; if none is specified, a random UUID is generated. If you specify \fIUUID\fR, use a 32-digit hexadecimal number. Keep in mind that UUIDs are intended to be unique across the entire data center, and indeed, the world.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRCloning a Guest with a Single Disk
.sp
.LP
The following command clones a guest named \fBdemo\fR, which has a single disk to copy.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBvirt-clone \e
     --original demo \e
     --name newdemo \e
     --file /var/lib/xen/images/newdemo.img\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fRCloning a Guest with Multiple Disks
.sp
.LP
The following command clones a guest named \fBdemo\fR, with has multiple disks to copy.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBvirt-clone \e
     --original demo \e
     --name newdemo \e
     --file /var/lib/xen/images/newdemo.img \e
     --file /var/lib/xen/images/newdata.img\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 3 \fRCloning to a Device with Comparable Disk Space
.sp
.LP
The following command clones a guest to a physical device that has at least as much disk space as had the original guest. . If the destination device is has more space, the new guest can do a file system resize when it boots.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBvirt-clone \e
     --name demo \e
     --file /dev/HostVG/DemoVM \e
     --mac 00:16:3e:34:11:54\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWxvmu
_
Interface StabilityVolatile
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBvirsh\fR(1M), \fBvirt-install\fR(1M), \fBxm\fR(1M), \fBxVM\fR(5), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBxVM\fR(5)
