'\" te
.\"  Copyright 2011, Joyent, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH zonemon 1M "8 Mar 2011" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
zonemon \- display zone related troubleshooting data
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBzonemon\fR [\fB-k\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBzonemon\fR command prints zone's kernel state that is useful for troubleshooting zone's related issues, then waits for zone state transitions and reports those as they occur.  This command is a useful first step for monitoring and troubleshooting zones.
.sp

.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-k\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Print zone kernel state and exit without monitoring for zone state transitions.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBmdb\fR(1)
