'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH libmlib_mt 3LIB "15 Oct 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "Interface Libraries"
.SH NAME
libmlib_mt \- multi-threaded mediaLib
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lmlib_mt\fR \fB -lmlib \fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <\fBmlib.h\fR>
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Interfaces in this library provide functions for multimedia processing. Multi-threaded (MT) mediaLib is a software layer developed on top of mediaLib using OpenMP.  When it is used with a large data set on a multi-processor system, MT mediaLib will partition data into subsets and process the subsets in parallel, thus greatly improving performance of applications that use mediaLib.
.SH INTERFACES
.sp
.LP
The shared object \fBlibmlib_mt.so.2\fR provides the same public interfaces as those defined in \fBlibmlib\fR(3LIB). See \fBIntro\fR(3) for additional information on shared object interfaces.
.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
There are two ways to use MT mediaLib.
.RS +4
.TP
1.
Pre-load a multi-threaded mediaLib library during runtime by setting the \fBLD_PRELOAD\fR environment variable as follows before starting your application, in Bourne/Korn shell:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
LD_PRELOAD=libmlib_mt.so
export LD_PRELOAD
.fi
.in -2

or in C shell:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
setenv LD_PRELOAD libmlib_mt.so
.fi
.in -2

In this way, you can take advantage of MT mediaLib without rebuilding your application.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
2.
Link your application with a multi-threaded mediaLib library directly as shown under SYNOPSIS.  In this way, an MT mediaLib library is always used whenever your application is started.
.RE
.sp
.LP
The parallelization of MT mediaLib is controlled, in part, by the \fBPARALLEL\fR environment variable.  You can change its setting to adjust the degree of parallelization before starting your application,  in Bourne/Korn shell: 
.sp
.in +2
.nf
PARALLEL=n
export PARALLEL
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
or in C shell:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
setenv PARALLEL n
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
where \fBn\fR is a positive integer for number of threads. Note that other factors also affect the degree of parallelization in MT mediaLib.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/libmlib_mt.so.2\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
shared object
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/64/libmlib_mt.so.2\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
64-bit shared object
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWmlibt
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBIntro\fR(3), \fBlibmlib\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
mediaLib User's Manual
