'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH libssagent 3LIB "22 May 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Interface Libraries"
.SH NAME
libssagent \- Sun Solstice Enterprise Agent library
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lssagent\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR.. ]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBlibssagent\fR library is a high level API library that is dependent on \fBlibssasnmp\fR. This library contains the starting point of the request-driven engine that always runs in the background within the subagent. It receives SNMP requests, evaluates variables, calls the appropriate functions, and sends the correct responses.
.SH INTERFACES
.sp
.LP
The shared object \fBlibssagent.so.1\fR provides the public interfaces defined below. See \fBIntro\fR(3) for additional information on shared object interfaces.
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab();
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) 
.
\fBSSAAgentIsAlive\fR\fBSSAGetTrapPort\fR
\fBSSAMain\fR\fBSSARegSubagent\fR
\fBSSARegSubtree\fR\fBSSASubagentOpen\fR
\fB_SSASendTrap\fR\fB_SSASendTrap2\fR
\fB_SSASendTrap3\fR\fBcallItem\fR
\fBnumCallItem\fR\fBnumTrapElem\fR
\fBtrapAnyEnterpriseInfo\fR\fBtrapBucket\fR
\fBtrapEnterpriseInfo\fR\fBtrapTableMap\fR
.TE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/libssagent.so.1\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
shared object
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/64/libssagent.so.1\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
64-bit shared object
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWsasnm
_
MT-LevelUnsafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBIntro\fR(3), \fBlibssasnmp\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
