'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved 
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH mlib_VideoColorYUV420seq_to_UYVY422int 3MLIB "2 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_VideoColorYUV420seq_to_UYVY422int \- convert YUV sequential to interleaved
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBvoid\fR \fBmlib_VideoColorYUV420seq_to_UYVY422int\fR(\fBmlib_u32 *\fR\fIUYVY\fR,
     \fBconst mlib_u8 *\fR\fIY\fR,\fBconst mlib_u8 *\fR\fIU\fR, \fBconst mlib_u8 *\fR\fIV\fR,
     \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIw\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIh\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIdlb\fR,
     \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIylb\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIuvlb\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The Y, U, V pixel streams are combined into a UYVY pixel stream. All pixel components are 8-bit unsigned integers. The Y buffer has dimensions \fIw\fR and \fIh\fR. The U and V buffers have dimensions \fIw\fR/2 and \fIh\fR/2. Dimensions \fIw\fR and \fIh\fR are assumed to be even. Successive rows of the output buffer UYVY use successive rows of Y and the same rows of U and V.
.sp
.LP
The following equation is used:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
UYVY[r][c/2]   = (U[r/2][c/2] << 24) |
                 (Y[r][c]     << 16) |
                 (V[r/2][c/2] << 8) |
                 (Y[r][c+1])

UYVY[r+1][c/2] = (U[r/2][c/2] << 24) |
                 (Y[r+1][c]   << 16) |
                 (V[r/2][c/2] << 8) |
                 (Y[r+1][c+1])
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
where \fBr = 0, 2, 4, ..., h-2\fR; and \fBc = 0, 2, 4, ..., w-2\fR.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The function takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIUYVY\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt  
Pointer to output buffer.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIY\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt  
Pointer to Y input buffer.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIU\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt  
Pointer to U input buffer.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIV\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt  
Pointer to V input buffer.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIw\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt  
Image width in pixels.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIh\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt  
Image height in lines.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIdlb\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt  
Linebytes for UYVY buffer.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIylb\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt  
Linebytes for Y buffer.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIuvlb\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt  
Linebytes for U and V buffers.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
None.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBmlib_VideoColorYUV420seq_to_YUYV422int\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoColorYUV411seq_to_YUYV422int\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoColorYUV422seq_to_YUYV422int\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoColorYUV411seq_to_UYVY422int\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoColorYUV422seq_to_UYVY422int\fR(3MLIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
