'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved 
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH mlib_ImageScale2 3MLIB "2 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_ImageScale2 \- linear scaling
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_ImageScale2\fR(\fBmlib_image *\fR\fIdst\fR, \fBconst mlib_image *\fR\fIsrc\fR,
     \fBconst mlib_d64 *\fR\fIalpha\fR, \fBconst mlib_d64 *\fR\fIbeta\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBmlib_ImageScale2()\fR function performs a linear scaling on the pixels of the source image by multiplying the data by a scale factor and then adding an offset. Images must have the same size, and number of channels. They can have 1, 2, 3, or 4 channels.
.sp
.LP
The following equation is used:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
dst[x][y][i] = src[x][y][i] * alpha[i] + beta[i]
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
If the result of the operation underflows/overflows the minimum/maximum value supported by the destination image, then it will be clamped to the minimum/maximum value respectively.
.sp
.LP
See the following table for available variations of this linear scaling function.
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab();
cw(1.38i) cw(0i) cw(0i) cw(1.38i) cw(1.38i) cw(0i) cw(1.38i) 
lw(1.38i) lw(0i) lw(0i) lw(1.38i) lw(1.38i) lw(0i) lw(1.38i) 
.
Type [*]BYTESHORTUSHORTINTFLOATDOUBLE
_
MLIB_BYTEYYYYYY
_
MLIB_SHORTYYYYYY
_
MLIB_USHORTYYYYYY
_
MLIB_INTYYYYYY
.TE

.sp
.LP
[*] Each row represents a source data type. Each column represents a destination data type.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The function takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIdst\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt  
Pointer to destination image.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIsrc\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt  
Pointer to source image.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIalpha\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt  
Scaling factor. \fBalpha[i]\fR contains the scaling factor for channel \fBi\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIbeta\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt  
Offset value. \fBbeta[i]\fR contains the offset for channel \fBi\fR.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The function returns \fBMLIB_SUCCESS\fR if successful. Otherwise it returns \fBMLIB_FAILURE\fR.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBmlib_ImageScale\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageScale_Fp\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageScale_Fp_Inp\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageScale_Inp\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageScale2_Inp\fR(3MLIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
