'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved 
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH mlib_ImageLookUp 3MLIB "12 Sep 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_ImageLookUp \- table lookup
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_ImageLookUp\fR(\fBmlib_image *\fR\fIdst\fR, \fBconst mlib_image *\fR\fIsrc\fR,
     \fBconst void **\fR\fItable\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBmlib_ImageLookUp()\fR function maps the source image to the destination image by using the user-specified lookup table.
.sp
.LP
The source and destination images must have the same width and height. The source image can be a single channel image or can have the same number of channels as the destination image. One of the following equations is used accordingly: 
.sp
.in +2
.nf
dst[x][y][i] = table[i][src[x][y][0]]
dst[x][y][i] = table[i][src[x][y][i]]
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The source and destination images can have different data types. See the following table for available variations of the table lookup function on image types:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab();
cw(1.38i) cw(0i) cw(0i) cw(1.38i) cw(1.38i) cw(0i) cw(1.38i) 
lw(1.38i) lw(0i) lw(0i) lw(1.38i) lw(1.38i) lw(0i) lw(1.38i) 
.
Type [*]BYTESHORTUSHORTINTFLOATDOUBLE
_
MLIB_BITY
MLIB_BYTEYYYYYY
_
MLIB_SHORTYYYYYY
_
MLIB_USHORTYYYYYY
_
MLIB_INTYYYYYY
.TE

.sp
.LP
[*] Each row represents a source data type. Each column represents a destination data type.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The function takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIdst\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt  
Pointer to destination image.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIsrc\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt  
Pointer to source image.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fItable\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt  
Pointer to lookup table. The data type of the lookup table is the same as the destination image. The number of entries in the lookup table is determined by the type of the input image. The format of the lookup table is:
.sp
\fBtable[channel][index]\fR
.sp
The \fBMLIB_BIT\fR type entries are indexed from 0 to 1. The \fBMLIB_BYTE\fR type entries are indexed from 0 to 255. The \fBMLIB_SHORT\fR type entries are indexed from -32768 to -1, then from 0 to 32767. The \fBMLIB_USHORT\fR type entries are indexed from 0 to 65535. The \fBMLIB_INT\fR type entries are indexed from -2147483648 to -1, and then from 0 to 2147483647.
.sp
If a table covering the full range of input data type is not available or not realistic, which is mostly true for doing table lookup with an \fBMLIB_INT\fR input image, a smaller table can be used.  In this case, the pointer to the table has to be adjusted as if it is pointing to the element for the smallest value of the input data type.  For example, to use a table covering input data range of \fB[-65536, 65535]\fR, the pointer needs to be adjusted as follows:
.sp
\fBtable_16_32[0] += MLIB_S32_MIN + 65536;\fR
.sp
This might cause a pointer arithmetic overflow in 32-bit mode, but probably works if the overflow is handled as a wrap-around.  If possible, function \fBmlib_ImageLookUp2()\fR should be used instead.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The function returns \fBMLIB_SUCCESS\fR if successful. Otherwise it returns \fBMLIB_FAILURE\fR.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBmlib_ImageLookUp_Inp\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageLookUp2\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageLookUpMask\fR(3MLIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
