'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved 
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH mlib_VectorReverseByteOrder_S16 3MLIB "2 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_VectorReverseByteOrder_S16, mlib_VectorReverseByteOrder_U16, mlib_VectorReverseByteOrder_S32, mlib_VectorReverseByteOrder_U32, mlib_VectorReverseByteOrder_S64, mlib_VectorReverseByteOrder_U64, mlib_VectorReverseByteOrder_F32, mlib_VectorReverseByteOrder_D64 \- reverse byte order of vector, in place
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_VectorReverseByteOrder_S16\fR(\fBmlib_s16 *\fR\fIxz\fR, 
     \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIn\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_VectorReverseByteOrder_U16\fR(\fBmlib_u16 *\fR\fIxz\fR, 
     \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIn\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_VectorReverseByteOrder_S32\fR(\fBmlib_s32 *\fR\fIxz\fR, 
     \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIn\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_VectorReverseByteOrder_U32\fR(\fBmlib_u32 *\fR\fIxz\fR, 
     \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIn\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_VectorReverseByteOrder_S64\fR(\fBmlib_s64 *\fR\fIxz\fR, 
     \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIn\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_VectorReverseByteOrder_U64\fR(\fBmlib_u64 *\fR\fIxz\fR, 
     \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIn\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_VectorReverseByteOrder_F32\fR(\fBmlib_f32 *\fR\fIxz\fR, 
     \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIn\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_VectorReverseByteOrder_D64\fR(\fBmlib_d64 *\fR\fIxz\fR, 
     \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIn\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Each of these functions changes the encoding of each element from big endian to little endian, or from little endian to big endian.
.sp
.LP
It reverses the byte order of each element of the vector, in place.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
Each of the functions takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIxz\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Pointer to input and output vector.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIn\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Number of elements in the vectors.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Each of the functions returns \fBMLIB_SUCCESS\fR if successful. Otherwise it returns \fBMLIB_FAILURE\fR.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBmlib_VectorReverseByteOrder\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VectorReverseByteOrder_Inp\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VectorReverseByteOrder_S16_S16\fR(3MLIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
