'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved 
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH mlib_ImageThresh4 3MLIB "2 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_ImageThresh4 \- image thresholding
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_ImageThresh4\fR(\fBmlib_image *\fR\fIdst\fR, \fBconst mlib_image *\fR\fIsrc\fR,
     \fBconst mlib_s32 *\fR\fIthigh\fR, \fBconst mlib_s32 *\fR\fItlow\fR, \fBconst mlib_s32 *\fR\fIghigh\fR,
     \fBconst mlib_s32 *\fR\fIglow\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBmlib_ImageThresh4()\fR function compares each pixel in the source image to two threshold values, \fItlow\fR and \fIthigh\fR. If the pixel is less than the lower threshold value, \fItlow\fR, then the destination pixel is set to the lower output level, \fIglow\fR. If the pixel is greater than the higher threshold value, \fIthigh\fR, then the destination pixel is set to the higher output level, \fIghigh\fR. Otherwise, the destination pixel is set to the value of the source pixel.
.sp
.LP
It uses the following equation:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
dst[x][y][i] = glow[i]       if src[x][y][i] < tlow[i]
dst[x][y][i] = src[x][y][i]  if tlow[i] \(<= src[x][y][i] \(<= thigh[i]
dst[x][y][i] = ghigh[i]      if src[x][y][i] > thigh[i]
.fi
.in -2

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The function takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIdst\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt  
Pointer to destination image.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIsrc\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt  
Pointer to source image.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIthigh\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt  
High threshold value. \fBthigh[i]\fR holds the high threshold for channel \fBi\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fItlow\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt  
Low threshold value. \fBtlow[i]\fR holds the low threshold for channel \fBi\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIghigh\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt  
High output grayscale level. \fBghigh[i]\fR holds the high output grayscale level for channel \fBi\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIglow\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt  
Low output grayscale level. \fBglow[i]\fR holds the low output grayscale level for channel \fBi\fR.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The function returns \fBMLIB_SUCCESS\fR if successful. Otherwise it returns \fBMLIB_FAILURE\fR.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBmlib_ImageThresh1\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageThresh1_Fp\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageThresh1_Fp_Inp\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageThresh1_Inp\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageThresh2\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageThresh2_Fp\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageThresh2_Fp_Inp\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageThresh2_Inp\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageThresh3\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageThresh3_Fp\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageThresh3_Fp_Inp\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageThresh3_Inp\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageThresh4_Fp\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageThresh4_Fp_Inp\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageThresh4_Inp\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageThresh5\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageThresh5_Fp\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageThresh5_Fp_Inp\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageThresh5_Inp\fR(3MLIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
