'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved 
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH mlib_ImageConv7x7Index 3MLIB "2 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_ImageConv7x7Index \- 7x7 convolution on a color indexed image
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_ImageConv7x7Index\fR(\fBmlib_image *\fR\fIdst\fR, \fBconst mlib_image *\fR\fIsrc\fR,
     \fBconst mlib_s32 *\fR\fIkernel\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIscale\fR, \fBmlib_edge\fR \fIedge\fR,
     \fBconst void *\fR\fIcolormap\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBmlib_ImageConv7x7Index()\fR function performs a 7x7 convolution the color indexed source image by using the user-supplied kernel. The source and destination images must be single-channel images.
.sp
.LP
The input and output images must have the same image type and size.
.sp
.LP
For this convolution, the key element of the convolution kernel is located at the center of the kernel matrix.
.sp
.LP
This function performs the convolution on color indexed image. The input image and the output image must be single channel images. The image type must be \fBMLIB_BYTE\fR or \fBMLIB_SHORT\fR.
.sp
.LP
It uses the following equation:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
               m-1-dm n-1-dn
dst[x][y][i] =  SUM    SUM  src[x+p][y+q][i]*k[p][q]*2**(-scale)
               p=-dm  q=-dn
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
where \fBm = 7, n = 7, dm = (m - 1)/2 = 3, dn = (n - 1)/2 = 3\fR.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The function takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIdst\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt  
Pointer to destination image.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIsrc\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt  
Pointer to source image.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIkernel\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt  
Pointer to the convolution kernel, in row major order.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIscale\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt  
Scaling factor.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIedge\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt  
Type of edge condition. It can be one of the following:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
MLIB_EDGE_DST_NO_WRITE
MLIB_EDGE_DST_FILL_ZERO
MLIB_EDGE_DST_COPY_SRC
MLIB_EDGE_SRC_EXTEND
.fi
.in -2

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIcolormap\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt  
Internal data structure for inverse color mapping. This data structure is generated by the \fBmlib_ImageColorTrue2IndexInit()\fR function.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The function returns \fBMLIB_SUCCESS\fR if successful. Otherwise it returns \fBMLIB_FAILURE\fR.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBmlib_ImageConv2x2\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageConv2x2_Fp\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageConv2x2Index\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageConv3x3\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageConv3x3_Fp\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageConv3x3Index\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageConv4x4\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageConv4x4_Fp\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageConv4x4Index\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageConv5x5\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageConv5x5_Fp\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageConv5x5Index\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageConv7x7\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageConv7x7_Fp\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageConvKernelConvert\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageConvMxN\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageConvMxN_Fp\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageConvMxNIndex\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageConvolveMxN\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageConvolveMxN_Fp\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageSConv3x3\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageSConv3x3_Fp\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageSConv5x5\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageSConv5x5_Fp\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageSConv7x7\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageSConv7x7_Fp\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageSConvKernelConvert\fR(3MLIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
