'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved 
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH mlib_VideoColorABGR2JFIFYCC420 3MLIB "23 May 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_VideoColorABGR2JFIFYCC420 \- ABGR to JFIF YCbCr color conversion
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_VideoColorABGR2JFIFYCC420\fR(\fBmlib_u8 *\fR\fIy0\fR, 
     \fBmlib_u8 *\fR\fIy1\fR, \fBmlib_u8 *\fR\fIcb\fR, \fBmlib_u8 *\fR\fIcr\fR, \fBconst mlib_u8 *\fR\fIabgr0\fR, 
     \fBconst mlib_u8 *\fR\fIabgr1\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIn\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBmlib_VideoColorABGR2JFIFYCC420()\fR function performs color space conversion from ABGR to YCbCr together with sampling rate conversion when used in the JPEG File Interchange Format (JFIF).
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The function takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIy0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt  
Pointer to upper destination Y component row. y0 must be 8-byte aligned.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIy1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt  
Pointer to lower destination Y component row. y1 must be 8-byte aligned.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIcb\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt  
Pointer to destination Cb component row. cb must be 8-byte aligned.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIcr\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt  
Pointer to destination Cr component row. cr must be 8-byte aligned.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIabgr0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt  
Pointer to upper source ABGR multi-component row. abgr0 must be 8-byte aligned.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIabgr1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt  
Pointer to lower source ABGR multi-component row. abgr1 must be 8-byte aligned.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIn\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt  
Length of Y component row. n must be even. The length of Cb and Cr component rows must be n/2. The length of the ABGR multi-component row must be 4*n.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The function returns \fBMLIB_SUCCESS\fR if successful. Otherwise it returns \fBMLIB_FAILURE\fR.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBmlib_VideoColorABGR2JFIFYCC422\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoColorARGB2JFIFYCC420\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoColorARGB2JFIFYCC422\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoColorRGB2JFIFYCC420\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoColorRGB2JFIFYCC422\fR(3MLIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
