'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved 
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH mlib_SignalLinear2ADPCM5Bits 3MLIB "2 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_SignalLinear2ADPCM5Bits \- adaptive differential pulse code modulation (ADPCM)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_SignalLinear2ADPCM5Bits\fR(\fBmlib_u8 *\fR\fIadpcm\fR,
     \fBconst mlib_s16 *\fR\fIpcm\fR, \fBvoid *\fR\fIstate\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIn\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBmlib_SignalLinear2ADPCM5Bits()\fR function performs adaptive differential pulse code modulation (ADPCM) in compliance with the ITU (former CCITT) G.721, G.723, and G.726 specifications. It converts data from 16-bit linear PCM to G.723 or G.726 40kbps 5-bit ADPCM format.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The function takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIadpcm\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt  
ADPCM code array.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIpcm\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt  
Linear PCM sample array.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIstate\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt  
Internal structure of the codec.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIn\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt  
Number of samples in the source array.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The function returns \fBMLIB_SUCCESS\fR if successful. Otherwise it returns \fBMLIB_FAILURE\fR.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBmlib_SignalADPCM2Bits2Linear\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_SignalADPCM3Bits2Linear\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_SignalADPCM4Bits2Linear\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_SignalADPCM5Bits2Linear\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_SignalADPCMFree\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_SignalADPCMInit\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_SignalLinear2ADPCM2Bits\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_SignalLinear2ADPCM3Bits\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_SignalLinear2ADPCM4Bits\fR(3MLIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
