'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved 
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH mlib_ImageFourierTransform 3MLIB "2 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_ImageFourierTransform \- Fourier transform
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_ImageFourierTransform\fR(\fBmlib_image *\fR\fIdst\fR,
     \fBconst mlib_image *\fR\fIsrc\fR, \fBmlib_fourier_mode\fR \fImode\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBmlib_ImageFourierTransform()\fR function performs a two-dimensional Fourier transformation. The source and destination images must be the same type and the same size. The data type of the images can be \fBMLIB_BYTE\fR, \fBMLIB_SHORT\fR, \fBMLIB_USHORT\fR, \fBMLIB_INT\fR, \fBMLIB_FLOAT\fR, or \fBMLIB_DOUBLE\fR. The height and width of the images must be some positive power of 2 (but they do not have to be equal).
.sp
.LP
They can have 1 or 2 channels. If the source image has just one channel the imaginary parts are assumed to be zero. If the destination image has just one channel, then it is assumed that the imaginary parts of the output can be discarded. But in case both source and destination images are one-channel images, then \fBMLIB_FAILURE\fR is returned.
.sp
.LP
The predefined modes used in the image Fourier transform function are as follows:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab();
cw(2.75i) cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) 
.
ModeDescription
_
\fBMLIB_DFT_SCALE_NONE\fRForward DFT without scaling
\fBMLIB_DFT_SCALE_MXN\fRForward DFT with scaling of \fB1/(M*N)\fR
\fBMLIB_DFT_SCALE_SQRT\fRForward DFT with scaling of \fB1/sqrt(M*N)\fR
\fBMLIB_IDFT_SCALE_NONE\fRInverse DFT without scaling
\fBMLIB_IDFT_SCALE_MXN\fRInverse DFT with scaling of \fB1/(M*N)\fR
\fBMLIB_IDFT_SCALE_SQRT\fRInverse DFT with scaling of \fB1/sqrt(M*N)\fR
.TE

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The function takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIdst\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt  
Pointer to destination image.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIsrc\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt  
Pointer to source image.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fImode\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt  
Mode of the transform.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The function returns \fBMLIB_SUCCESS\fR if successful. Otherwise it returns \fBMLIB_FAILURE\fR.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBattributes\fR(5)
