'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved 
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH mlib_ImageReplaceColor 3MLIB "2 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_ImageReplaceColor \- replace a color in an image
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_ImageReplaceColor\fR(\fBmlib_image *\fR\fIdst\fR, \fBconst mlib_image *\fR\fIsrc\fR,
     \fBconst mlib_s32 *\fR\fIcolor1\fR, \fBconst mlib_s32 *\fR\fIcolor2\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBmlib_ImageReplaceColor()\fR function copies the source image to the destination image and replaces the pixels having a value of \fIcolor1\fR with \fIcolor2\fR.
.sp
.LP
It uses the following equation:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
dst[x][y] = color2     if src[x][y] == color1
dst[x][y] = src[x][y]  if src[x][y] != color1
.fi
.in -2

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The function takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIdst\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
Pointer to destination image.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIsrc\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
Pointer to source image.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIcolor1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
Array of color components to be replaced.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIcolor2\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
Array of color components to replace \fBcolor1\fR.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The function returns \fBMLIB_SUCCESS\fR if successful. Otherwise it returns \fBMLIB_FAILURE\fR.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBmlib_ImageReplaceColor_Inp\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageReplaceColor_Fp\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageReplaceColor_Fp_Inp\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageThresh5\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageThresh5_Inp\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageThresh5_Fp\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageThresh5_Fp_Inp\fR(3MLIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
