'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved 
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH mlib_ImageZoomTranslateToGray 3MLIB "2 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_ImageZoomTranslateToGray \- zoom, with translation, and convert to grayscale
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_ImageZoomTranslateToGray\fR(\fBmlib_image *\fR\fIdst\fR, 
     \fBconst mlib_image *\fR\fIsrc\fR, \fBmlib_d64\fR \fIzoomx\fR, \fBmlib_d64\fR \fIzoomy\fR, 
     \fBmlib_d64\fR \fItx\fR, \fBmlib_d64\fR \fIty\fR, \fBmlib_filter\fR \fIfilter\fR, \fBmlib_edge\fR \fIedge\fR, 
     \fBconst mlib_s32 *\fR\fIghigh\fR, \fBconst mlib_s32 *\fR\fIglow\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBmlib_ImageZoomTranslateToGray()\fR function will enlarge or minify the source binary image by the X and Y zoom factors, with translation, and convert the resulting image into a grayscale image.
.sp
.LP
It uses the following equation for coordinate mapping:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
xd = zoomx*xs + tx
yd = zoomy*ys + ty
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
where a point with coordinates \fB(xs, ys)\fR in the source image is mapped to a point with coordinates \fB(xd, yd)\fR in the destination image.
.sp
.LP
The width and height of the destination image can be different from the width and height of the source image.
.sp
.LP
The center of the upper-left corner pixel of an image is located at \fB(0.5, 0.5)\fR.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The function takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIdst\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
Pointer to destination image. It must be of type \fBMLIB_BYTE\fR and have just one channel.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIsrc\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
Pointer to source image. It must be of type \fBMLIB_BIT\fR and have just one channel.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIzoomx\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
X zoom factor. \fBzoomx > 0\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIzoomy\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
Y zoom factor. \fBzoomy > 0\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fItx\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
X translation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIty\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
Y translation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIfilter\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
Type of resampling filter. It must be MLIB_NEAREST.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIedge\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
Type of edge condition. It can be one of the following:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
MLIB_EDGE_DST_NO_WRITE
MLIB_EDGE_DST_FILL_ZERO
MLIB_EDGE_OP_NEAREST
MLIB_EDGE_SRC_EXTEND
MLIB_EDGE_SRC_PADDED
.fi
.in -2

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIghigh\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
Pointer to value for '1' pixels in source image.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIglow\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
Pointer to value for '0' pixels in source image.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The function returns \fBMLIB_SUCCESS\fR if successful. Otherwise it returns \fBMLIB_FAILURE\fR.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBmlib_ImageSubsampleBinaryToGray\fR(3MLIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
