'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved 
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH mlib_SignalLPCCovarianceInit_S16 3MLIB "2 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_SignalLPCCovarianceInit_S16, mlib_SignalLPCCovarianceInit_F32 \- initialization for covariance method of linear predictive coding
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_SignalLPCCovarianceInit_S16\fR(\fBvoid *\fR\fIstate\fR,
     \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIlength\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIorder\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_SignalLPCCovarianceInit_F32\fR(\fBvoid *\fR\fIstate\fR,
     \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIlength\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIorder\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Each function initializes the internal state structure for covariance method of linear predictive coding (LPC).
.sp
.LP
The init function performs internal state structure allocation and global initialization. Per LPC function call initialization is done in LPC function, so the same internal state structure can be reused for multiple LPC function calls.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
Each function takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIstate\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
Pointer to the internal state structure.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIlength\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
The length of the input signal vector.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIorder\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
The order of the linear prediction filter.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Each function returns \fBMLIB_SUCCESS\fR if successful. Otherwise it returns \fBMLIB_FAILURE\fR.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBmlib_SignalLPCCovariance_S16\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_SignalLPCCovarianceFree_S16\fR(3MLIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
