'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved 
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH mlib_ImageNormCrossCorrel_Fp 3MLIB "2 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_ImageNormCrossCorrel_Fp \- normalized cross correlation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_ImageNormCrossCorrel_Fp\fR(\fBmlib_d64 *\fR\fIcorrel\fR,
     \fBconst mlib_image *\fR\fIimg1\fR, \fBconst mlib_image *\fR\fIimg2\fR, \fBconst mlib_d64 *\fR\fImean2\fR,
     \fBconst mlib_d64 *\fR\fIsdev2\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBmlib_ImageNormCrossCorrel_Fp()\fR function computes the normalized cross-correlation coefficients between a pair of floating-point images, on a per-channel basis.
.sp
.LP
It uses the following equations:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
               w-1 h-1
               SUM SUM (d1[x][y][i] * d2[x][y][i])
               x=0 y=0
  correl[i] = -------------------------------------
                         s1[i] * s2[i]

d1[x][y][i] = img1[x][y][i] - m1[i]

d2[x][y][i] = img2[x][y][i] - m2[i]

                1     w-1 h-1
      m1[i] = ----- * SUM SUM img1[x][y][i]
               w*h    x=0 y=0

                1     w-1 h-1
      m2[i] = ----- * SUM SUM img2[x][y][i]
               w*h    x=0 y=0

                    w-1 h-1
      s1[i] = sqrt{ SUM SUM (img1[x][y][i] - m1[i])**2 }
                    x=0 y=0
 
                    w-1 h-1
      s2[i] = sqrt{ SUM SUM (img2[x][y][i] - m2[i])**2 }
                    x=0 y=0
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
where \fBw\fR and \fBh\fR are the width and height of the images, respectively; \fBm1\fR and \fBm2\fR are the mean arrays of the first and second images, respectively; \fBs1\fR and \fBs2\fR are the un-normalized standard deviation arrays of the first and second images, respectively.
.sp
.LP
In usual cases, the normalized cross-correlation coefficient is in the range of \fB[-1.0, 1.0]\fR.  In the case of \fB(s1[i] == 0)\fR or \fB(s2[i] == 0)\fR, where a constant image channel is involved, the normalized cross-correlation coefficient is defined as follows:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
    #define signof(x) ((x > 0) ? 1 : ((x < 0) ? -1 : 0))

    if ((s1[i] == 0.) || (s2[i] == 0.)) {
        if ((s1[i] == 0.) && (s2[i] == 0.)) {
           if (signof(m1[i]) == signof(m2[i]) {
               correl[i] = 1.0;
           } else {
               correl[i] = -1.0;
           }
        } else {
            correl[i] = -1.0;
        }
    }
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The two images must have the same type, the same size, and the same number of channels. They can have 1, 2, 3 or 4 channels. They can be of type \fBMLIB_FLOAT\fR or \fBMLIB_DOUBLE\fR.
.sp
.LP
If \fB(mean2 == NULL)\fR or \fB(sdev2 == NULL)\fR, then \fBm2\fR and \fBs2\fR are calculated in this function according to the formulas shown above.  Otherwise, they are calculated as follows:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
    m2[i] = mean2[i];
    s2[i] = sdev2[i] * sqrt(w*h);
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
where \fBmean2\fR and \fBsdev2\fR can be the output of \fBmlib_ImageMean()\fR and \fBmlib_ImageStdDev()\fR, respectively.
.sp
.LP
In some cases, the resulting coefficients of this function could be NaN, Inf, or -Inf.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The function takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIcorrel\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
Pointer to normalized cross correlation array on a channel basis. The array must be the size of channels in the images. \fBcorrel[i]\fR contains the cross-correlation of channel \fBi\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIimg1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
Pointer to first image.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIimg2\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
Pointer to second image.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fImean2\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
Pointer to the mean array of the second image.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIsdev2\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
Pointer to the standard deviation array of the second image.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The function returns \fBMLIB_SUCCESS\fR if successful. Otherwise it returns \fBMLIB_FAILURE\fR.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBmlib_ImageAutoCorrel\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageAutoCorrel_Fp\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageCrossCorrel\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageCrossCorrel_Fp\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageNormCrossCorrel\fR(3MLIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
