'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved 
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH mlib_ImageExtrema2 3MLIB "2 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_ImageExtrema2, mlib_ImageExtrema2_Fp \- image extrema
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_ImageExtrema2\fR(\fBmlib_s32 *\fR\fImin\fR, \fBmlib_s32 *\fR\fImax\fR,
     \fBconst mlib_image *\fR\fIimg\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIxStart\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIyStart\fR,
     \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIxPeriod\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIyPeriod\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_ImageExtrema2_Fp\fR(\fBmlib_d64 *\fR\fImin\fR, \fBmlib_d64 *\fR\fImax\fR,
     \fBconst mlib_image *\fR\fIimg\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIxStart\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIyStart\fR,
     \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIxPeriod\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIyPeriod\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Each of the functions determines the extrema values for each channel in an image, possibly with subsampling.
.sp
.LP
It uses the following equation:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
min[i] = MIN{ img[x][y][i] }
max[i] = MAX{ img[x][y][i] }
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
where
.sp
.in +2
.nf
x = xStart + p*xPeriod;  0 \(<= p < (w - xStart)/xPeriod
y = yStart + q*yPeriod;  0 \(<= q < (h - yStart)/yPeriod
.fi
.in -2

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
Each of the functions takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fImin\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Pointer to minimum vector, where length is the number of channels in the image. \fBmin[i]\fR contains the minimum of channel \fBi\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fImax\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Pointer to maximum vector, where length is the number of channels in the image. \fBmax[i]\fR contains the maximum of channel \fBi\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIimg\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Pointer to a source image.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIxStart\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Initial X sample coordinate.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIyStart\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Initial Y sample coordinate.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIxPeriod\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
 X sample rate. \fBxPeriod \(>= 1\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIyPeriod\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
 Y sample rate. \fByPeriod \(>= 1\fR.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The function returns \fBMLIB_SUCCESS\fR if successful. Otherwise it returns \fBMLIB_FAILURE\fR.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBmlib_ImageExtremaLocations\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageMaximum\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageMaximum_Fp\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageMinimum\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageMinimum_Fp\fR(3MLIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
