'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved 
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH mlib_VideoIDCT8x8_U8_S16 3MLIB "2 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_VideoIDCT8x8_U8_S16 \- inverse Discrete Cosine Transform
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_VideoIDCT8x8_U8_S16\fR(\fBmlib_u8 *\fR\fIblock\fR,
     \fBconst mlib_s16\fR \fIcoeffs[64]\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIstride\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBmlib_VideoIDCT8x8_U8_S16()\fR function computes the inverse DCT (called IDCT) for the destination IDCT block of data type mlib_u8 and source DCT coefficients of data type mlib_s16.
.sp
.LP
The stride applies to the block that is part of the frame currently being reconstructed.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The function takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIblock\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
Pointer to an 8x8 block in the current frame. block must be 8-byte aligned.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIcoeffs\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
Pointer to the source DCT coefficients. coeffs must be 8-byte aligned.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIstride\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
Stride, in bytes, between adjacent rows in a block. stride must be a multiple of eight.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The function returns \fBMLIB_SUCCESS\fR if successful. Otherwise it returns \fBMLIB_FAILURE\fR.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBmlib_VideoIDCT_IEEE_S16_S16\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoIDCT8x8_S16_S16\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoIDCT8x8_S16_S16_DC\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoIDCT8x8_S16_S16_NA\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoIDCT8x8_S16_S16_Q1\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoIDCT8x8_U8_S16_DC\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoIDCT8x8_U8_S16_NA\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoIDCT8x8_U8_S16_Q1\fR(3MLIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
