'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved 
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH mlib_ImageChannelSplit 3MLIB "2 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_ImageChannelSplit \- channel split
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_ImageChannelSplit\fR(\fBmlib_image **\fR\fIdsts\fR,
     \fBconst mlib_image *\fR\fIsrc\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBmlib_ImageChannelSplit()\fR function converts a multi-channel image into an array of single-channel images.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
                                      A0 A1 A2 ...
A0 B0 C0 A1 B1 C1 A2 B2 C2 ...  ===>  B0 B1 B2 ...
                                      C0 C1 C2 ...
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
All images must have the same type, same width, and same height. The data type of the images can be \fBMLIB_BYTE\fR, \fBMLIB_SHORT\fR, \fBMLIB_USHORT\fR, \fBMLIB_INT\fR, \fBMLIB_FLOAT\fR, or \fBMLIB_DOUBLE\fR. The source image must have the number of channels equal to the number of images in the \fIdsts\fR array. The destination images must be single-channel images.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The function takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIdsts\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt  
Pointer to an array of single-channel destination images.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIsrc\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt  
Pointer to a multi-channel source image.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The function returns \fBMLIB_SUCCESS\fR if successful. Otherwise it returns \fBMLIB_FAILURE\fR.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBmlib_ImageChannelCopy\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageChannelExtract\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageChannelInsert\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageChannelMerge\fR(3MLIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
