'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved 
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH mlib_SignalMelCepstral_F32 3MLIB "2 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_SignalMelCepstral_F32 \- perform cepstral analysis in mel frequency scale
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_SignalMelCepstral_F32\fR(\fBmlib_f32 *\fR\fIcepst\fR,
     \fBconst mlib_f32 *\fR\fIsignal\fR, \fBvoid *\fR\fIstate\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBmlib_SignalMelCepstral_F32()\fR function performs cepstral analysis in mel frequency scale.
.sp
.LP
The first two steps of mel scale cepstral analysis is the same as in general cepstral anaysis. After the logarithm of the spectrum magnitude is obtained, it is converted into mel frequency scale before the inverse Fourier transform.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
           +-----------+        +-----------+
           |  Linear   |        |  Inverse  |
\&... ------>|    to     |------->|  Fourier  |----->
     X'(k) | Mel Scale | X''(m) | Transform | c(n)
           +-----------+        +-----------+
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
where \fBX'(k)\fR is defined in linear frequency scale and \fBX''(m)\fR is defined in mel frequency scale.
.sp
.LP
The mel frequency scale is defined as following.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
freq_mel = melmul * LOG10(1 + freq_linear / meldiv)
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
where \fBfreq_mel\fR is the frequency in mel scale, \fBfreq_linear\fR is the frequency in linear scale, \fBmelmul\fR is the multiplying factor, \fBmuldiv\fR is the dividing factor.
.sp
.LP
Optionally, a bank of band pass filters in linear frequency scale can be used below the bank of band pass filters in mel frequency scale, as shown below in linear frequency scale.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
0   f1  f2  f3    fp  fp+1 fp+2  fp+3  fp+q
|---|---|---| ... |---|----|-----| ... | ... -> freq
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
where \fBfp = melbgn\fR, \fBfp+q = melend\fR, \fBp = nlinear\fR, \fBq = nmel\fR; the filters number \fB1\fR to \fBp\fR are defined in linear frequency scale which have equal bandwidth in linear frequency scale; the filters number \fBp+1\fR to \fBp+q\fR are defined in mel frequency scale which have equal bandwidth in mel frequency scale and increasing bandwidth in linear frequency scale.
.sp
.LP
See \fIDigital Signal Processing\fR by Alan V. Oppenheim and Ronald W. Schafer, Prentice Hall, 1974.
.sp
.LP
See \fIFundamentals of Speech Recognition\fR by Lawrence Rabiner and Biing-Hwang Juang, Prentice Hall, 1993.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The function takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIcepst\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
The cepstral coefficients.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIsignal\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
The input signal vector.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIstate\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
Pointer to the internal state structure.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The function returns \fBMLIB_SUCCESS\fR if successful. Otherwise it returns \fBMLIB_FAILURE\fR.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBmlib_SignalMelCepstralInit_F32\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_SignalMelCepstralFree_F32\fR(3MLIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
