'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved 
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH mlib_VectorConjSymExt_S8C_S8C_Sat 3MLIB "2 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_VectorConjSymExt_S8C_S8C_Sat, mlib_VectorConjSymExt_S16C_S16C_Sat, mlib_VectorConjSymExt_S32C_S32C_Sat \- vector conjugate-symmetric extension
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_VectorConjSymExt_S8C_S8C_Sat\fR(\fBmlib_s8 *\fR\fIz\fR, 
     \fBconst mlib_s8 *\fR\fIx\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIn\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_VectorConjSymExt_S16C_S16C_Sat\fR(\fBmlib_s16 *\fR\fIz\fR, 
     \fBconst mlib_s16 *\fR\fIx\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIn\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_VectorConjSymExt_S32C_S32C_Sat\fR(\fBmlib_s32 *\fR\fIz\fR, 
     \fBconst mlib_s32 *\fR\fIx\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIn\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Each of these functions computes the complex conjugate extension of a complex vector.
.sp
.LP
The source and destination vectors must be in the same data type.
.sp
.LP
When \fBn\fR is even, the following equation is used:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
z[2*i]     =  x[2*i]
z[2*i + 1] = -x[2*i + 1]
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
for \fBi = 0, 1, ..., (n - 1)\fR.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
z[2*i]     =  x[2*(2*n - 1 - i)]
z[2*i + 1] = -x[2*(2*n - 1 - i) + 1]
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
for \fBi = n, (n + 1), ..., (2*n - 1)\fR.
.sp
.LP
When \fBn\fR is odd, the following equation is used:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
z[2*i]     =  x[2*i]
z[2*i + 1] = -x[2*i + 1]
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
for \fBi = 0, 1, ..., (n - 1)\fR.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
z[2*i]     =  x[2*(2*n - 2 - i)]
z[2*i + 1] = -x[2*(2*n - 2 - i) + 1]
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
for \fBi = n, (n + 1), ..., (2*n - 2)\fR.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
Each of the functions takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIz\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt  
Pointer to the first element of the destination vector.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIx\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt  
Pointer to the first element of the source vector.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIn\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt  
Number of elements in the source vector.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Each of the functions returns \fBMLIB_SUCCESS\fR if successful. Otherwise it returns \fBMLIB_FAILURE\fR.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBattributes\fR(5)
