'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved 
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH mlib_VideoCopyRef_U8_U8 3MLIB "2 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_VideoCopyRef_U8_U8 \- copies a block from the reference block to the current block
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_VideoCopyRef_U8_U8\fR(\fBmlib_u8 *\fR\fIcurr_block\fR,
     \fBconst mlib_u8 *\fR\fIref_block\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIwidth\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIheight\fR,
     \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIstride\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBmlib_VideoCopyRef_U8_U8()\fR function copies a block from the reference block to the current block. The stride applies to both the input reference block and the current block.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The function takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIcurr_block\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
Pointer to the current block. \fIcurr_block\fR must be 8-byte aligned.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIref_block\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
Pointer to the reference block.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIwidth\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
Width of the blocks.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIheight\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
Height of the blocks.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIstride\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
Stride, in bytes, between adjacent rows in both the current block and the reference block. \fIstride\fR must be a multiple of eight.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The function returns \fBMLIB_SUCCESS\fR if successful. Otherwise it returns \fBMLIB_FAILURE\fR.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBmlib_VideoAddBlock_U8_S16\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoCopyRef_S16_U8\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoCopyRef_S16_U8_16x16\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoCopyRef_U8_U8_16x16\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoCopyRefAve_U8_U8\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoCopyRefAve_U8_U8_16x16\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoH263OverlappedMC_S16_U8\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoH263OverlappedMC_U8_U8\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoInterpAveX_U8_U8\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoInterpAveX_U8_U8_16x16\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoInterpAveXY_U8_U8\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoInterpAveXY_U8_U8_16x16\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoInterpAveY_U8_U8\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoInterpAveY_U8_U8_16x16\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoInterpX_S16_U8\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoInterpX_S16_U8_16x16\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoInterpX_U8_U8\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoInterpXY_S16_U8\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoInterpXY_S16_U8_16x16\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoInterpXY_U8_U8\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoInterpXY_U8_U8_16x16\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoInterpY_S16_U8\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoInterpY_S16_U8_16x16\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoInterpY_U8_U8\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoInterpY_U8_U8_16x16\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoP64Decimate_U8_U8\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoP64Loop_S16_U8\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoP64Loop_U8_U8\fR(3MLIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
