'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved 
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH mlib_VideoP64Decimate_U8_U8 3MLIB "2 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_VideoP64Decimate_U8_U8 \- averages the source raster image over 2x2 blocks and writes the results to the destination raster image
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_VideoP64Decimate_U8_U8\fR(\fBmlib_u8 *\fR\fIdst\fR,
     \fBconst mlib_u8 *\fR\fIsrc\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIwidth\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIheight\fR,
     \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIdst_stride\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIsrc_stride\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBmlib_VideoP64Decimate_U8_U8()\fR function averages the source raster image over 2x2 blocks and writes the results to the destination raster image. This function is used when the remote side is only capable of QCIF and our scanned image is source to the encoder in CIF format.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The function takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIdst\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
Pointer to the destination raster image.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIsrc\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
Pointer to the source raster image.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIwidth\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
Width of the image.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIheight\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
Height of the image.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIdst_stride\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
Stride, in bytes, between adjacent rows in the destination image.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIsrc_stride\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
Stride, in bytes, between adjacent rows in the source image.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The function returns \fBMLIB_SUCCESS\fR if successful. Otherwise it returns \fBMLIB_FAILURE\fR.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBmlib_VideoAddBlock_U8_S16\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoCopyRef_S16_U8\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoCopyRef_S16_U8_16x16\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoCopyRef_U8_U8_16x16\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoCopyRefAve_U8_U8_16x16\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoH263OverlappedMC_S16_U8\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoH263OverlappedMC_U8_U8\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoInterpAveX_U8_U8\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoInterpAveX_U8_U8_16x16\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoInterpAveXY_U8_U8\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoInterpAveXY_U8_U8_16x16\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoInterpAveY_U8_U8\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoInterpAveY_U8_U8_16x16\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoInterpX_S16_U8\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoInterpX_S16_U8_16x16\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoInterpX_U8_U8\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoInterpXY_S16_U8\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoInterpXY_S16_U8_16x16\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoInterpXY_U8_U8\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoInterpXY_U8_U8_16x16\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoInterpY_S16_U8\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoInterpY_S16_U8_16x16\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoInterpY_U8_U8\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoInterpY_U8_U8_16x16\fR(3MLIB), mlib_VideoP64Decimate_U8_U8(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoP64Loop_S16_U8\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoP64Loop_U8_U8\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoP64Loop_S16_U8\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoP64Loop_U8_U8\fR(3MLIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
