'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved 
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH mlib_ImageChannelInsert 3MLIB "2 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_ImageChannelInsert \- channel insert
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_ImageChannelInsert\fR(\fBmlib_image *\fR\fIdst\fR, \fBconst mlib_image *\fR\fIsrc\fR,
     \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIcmask\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
In the \fBmlib_ImageChannelInsert()\fR function, all N channels in the source image are copied into the selected channels in the destination image, where N is the number of channels in the source image. If more than N channels are selected, then the leftmost N channels are inserted. If less than N channels are selected, then the function returns failure status. The channel mask is defined with respect to the destination image. The data type of the image can be \fBMLIB_BYTE\fR, \fBMLIB_SHORT\fR, \fBMLIB_USHORT\fR, \fBMLIB_INT\fR, \fBMLIB_FLOAT\fR, or \fBMLIB_DOUBLE\fR.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The function takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIdst\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt  
Pointer to a destination image.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIsrc\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt  
Pointer to a source image.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIcmask\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt  
Source or destination channel selection mask. Each bit of the mask represents a channel in the image data. The least significant bit (LSB) of the mask corresponds to the last channel in the image data. A bit with a value of 1 indicates that the channel is selected.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The function returns \fBMLIB_SUCCESS\fR if successful. Otherwise it returns \fBMLIB_FAILURE\fR.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBmlib_ImageChannelCopy\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageChannelExtract\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageChannelMerge\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageChannelSplit\fR(3MLIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
