'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved 
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH mlib_ImageBlendMulti_Fp 3MLIB "2 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_ImageBlendMulti_Fp \- blend multiple images
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_ImageBlendMulti_Fp\fR(\fBmlib_image *\fR\fIdst\fR,
     \fBconst mlib_image **\fR\fIsrcs\fR, \fBconst mlib_image **\fR\fIalphas\fR, \fBconst mlib_d64 *\fR\fIc\fR,
     \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIn\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBmlib_ImageBlendMulti_Fp()\fR function blends multiple source images, using multiple alpha images, into a single destination image.
.sp
.LP
All images involved should have the same data type and same size and the source and destination images should have the same number of channels.  The alpha images should have either 1 channel or the same number of channels as the sources and destination.  A single-channel alpha image would be applied to all channels of the corresponding source image.  Single and multi-channel alpha images can be mixed in the same invocation.
.sp
.LP
It uses the following equation:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
                n-1
                SUM {alphas[k][x][y][j] * srcs[k][x][y][i]}
                k=0
dst[x][y][i] = ---------------------------------------------
                n-1
                SUM {alphas[k][x][y][j]}
                k=0
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
or
.sp
.in +2
.nf
                          n-1
dst[x][y][i] = c[i]    if SUM {alphas[k][x][y][j]} = 0
                          k=0
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
where \fBj = i\fR for multi-channel alpha images; \fBj = 0\fR for signle-channel alpha images.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The function takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIdst\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
Pointer to destination image.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIsrcs\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
Pointer to an array of source images.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIalphas\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
Pointer to an array of alpha images.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIc\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
Background color.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIn\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
Number of source images to be blended.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The function returns \fBMLIB_SUCCESS\fR if successful. Otherwise it returns \fBMLIB_FAILURE\fR.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBmlib_ImageBlendMulti\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageBlend\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageBlend_Fp\fR(3MLIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
