'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved 
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH mlib_ImageTestFlags 3MLIB "2 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_ImageTestFlags \- test flags
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBint\fR \fBmlib_ImageTestFlags\fR(\fBconst mlib_image *\fR\fIimg\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIflags\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBmlib_ImageTestFlags()\fR function tests the flags for a combination of the following predefined characteristics. Note that the result of zero means the conditions are satisfied.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
MLIB_IMAGE_ALIGNED64     /* data address is 64-byte aligned */
MLIB_IMAGE_ALIGNED8      /* data address is 8-byte aligned */
MLIB_IMAGE_ALIGNED4      /* data address is 4-byte aligned */
MLIB_IMAGE_ALIGNED2      /* data address is 2-byte aligned */
MLIB_IMAGE_WIDTH8X       /* width is multiple of 8 */
MLIB_IMAGE_WIDTH4X       /* width is multiple of 4 */
MLIB_IMAGE_WIDTH2X       /* width is multiple of 2 */
MLIB_IMAGE_HEIGHT8X      /* height is multiple of 8 */
MLIB_IMAGE_HEIGHT4X      /* height is multiple of 4 */
MLIB_IMAGE_HEIGHT2X      /* height is multiple of 2 */
MLIB_IMAGE_STRIDE8X      /* stride is multiple of 8 */
MLIB_IMAGE_ONEVECTOR     /* stride is equal to width in bytes */
MLIB_IMAGE_USERALLOCATED /* data space has been allocated by user */
MLIB_IMAGE_ATTRIBUTESET  /* image attribute flags have been set */
.fi
.in -2

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The function takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIimg\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt  
Pointer to a mediaLib image structure.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIflags\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt  
Combination of a set of characteristics to be tested. It is formed by logically Oring one or more individual predefined characteristics.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The function returns an integer value containing results of test. Condition = 0 if satisfied; otherwise, Condition != 0.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBmlib_ImageGetFlags\fR(3MLIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
