'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved 
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH mlib_ImageCreateStruct 3MLIB "2 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_ImageCreateStruct \- image structure creation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBmlib_image *\fR\fBmlib_ImageCreateStruct\fR(\fBmlib_type\fR \fItype\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIchannels\fR,
     \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIwidth\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIheight\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIstride\fR, \fBconst void *\fR\fIdatbuf\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBmlib_ImageCreateStruct()\fR function creates a mediaLib image data structure with parameters supplied by the user.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The function takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fItype\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt  
Image data type. It can be \fBMLIB_BIT\fR, \fBMLIB_BYTE\fR, \fBMLIB_SHORT\fR, \fBMLIB_USHORT\fR, \fBMLIB_INT\fR, \fBMLIB_FLOAT\fR, or \fBMLIB_DOUBLE\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIchannels\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt  
Number of channels in the image.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIwidth\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt  
Width of image in pixels.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIheight\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt  
Height of image in pixels.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIstride\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt  
Stride of each row of the data space in bytes.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIdatbuf\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt  
Pointer to the image data buffer.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The function returns a pointer to the \fBmlib_image\fR data structure.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBmlib_ImageCreate\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageCreateSubimage\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageSetStruct\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageResetStruct\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageDelete\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageSetFormat\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageSetPaddings\fR(3MLIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
