'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved 
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH mlib_VideoDCT2x2_S16_S16 3MLIB "2 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_VideoDCT2x2_S16_S16 \- forward Discrete Cosine Transform (DCT)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_VideoDCT2x2_S16_S16\fR(\fBmlib_s16\fR \fIcoeffs[4]\fR,
    \fBconst mlib_s16\fR \fIblock[4]\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBmlib_VideoDCT2x2_S16_S16()\fR function computes the forward DCT for the destination DCT coefficients of data type mlib_s16 and a source block of data type mlib_s16. The input to the DCT routine is the difference between the current block and the reference block. The difference pixel can occupy nine bits and is represented as a 16-bit datum. The source and destination buffer addresses must be 8-byte aligned.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The function takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIcoeffs\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
Pointer to the destination DCT coefficients. coeffs must be 8-byte aligned.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIblock\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
Pointer to an 2x2 motion-compensated block that is the difference between the reference block and the current block. block must be 8-byte aligned.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The function returns \fBMLIB_SUCCESS\fR if successful. Otherwise it returns \fBMLIB_FAILURE\fR.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
mlib_VideoDCT2x2_S16_S16(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoDCT4x4_S16_S16\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoDCT8x8_S16_S16\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoDCT8x8_S16_S16_B12\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoDCT8x8_S16_S16_NA\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoDCT8x8_S16_U8\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoDCT8x8_S16_U8_NA\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoDCT16x16_S16_S16\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoDCT16x16_S16_S16_B10\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoDeQuantize_S16\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoDeQuantizeInit_S16\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoQuantize_S16\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoQuantizeInit_S16\fR(3MLIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
