'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved 
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH mlib_ImageStdDev_Fp 3MLIB "2 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_ImageStdDev_Fp \- image standard deviation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_ImageStdDev_Fp\fR(\fBmlib_d64 *\fR\fIsdev\fR, \fBconst mlib_image *\fR\fIimg\fR,
     \fBconst mlib_d64 *\fR\fImean\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBmlib_ImageStdDev_Fp()\fR function computes the standard deviation for each channel in the floating-point source image.
.sp
.LP
It uses the following equation:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
              1     w-1 h-1
sdev[i] = { ----- * SUM SUM (img[x][y][i] - mean[i])**2 }**0.5
             w*h    x=0 y=0
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
where, in the case of \fBmean == NULL\fR,
.sp
.in +2
.nf
            1     w-1 h-1
mean[i] = ----- * SUM SUM img[x][y][i]
           w*h    x=0 y=0
.fi
.in -2

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The function takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIsdev\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt  
Pointer to standard deviation array, whose size is the number of channels in the source image. \fBsdev[i]\fR contains the standard deviation of channel \fBi\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIimg\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt  
Pointer to input image.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fImean\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt  
Pointer to pre-computed mean array for each channel. (If \fBNULL\fR, it will be computed.) \fBmean[i]\fR contains the mean of channel \fBi\fR.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The function returns \fBMLIB_SUCCESS\fR if successful. Otherwise it returns \fBMLIB_FAILURE\fR.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBmlib_ImageMean\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageMean_Fp\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageStdDev\fR(3MLIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
