'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved 
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH mlib_ImageBlend_BSRC1_BSRC2_Inp 3MLIB "2 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_ImageBlend_BSRC1_BSRC2_Inp, mlib_ImageBlend_DA_DA_Inp, mlib_ImageBlend_DA_DC_Inp, mlib_ImageBlend_DA_OMDA_Inp, mlib_ImageBlend_DA_OMDC_Inp, mlib_ImageBlend_DA_OMSA_Inp, mlib_ImageBlend_DA_ONE_Inp, mlib_ImageBlend_DA_SA_Inp, mlib_ImageBlend_DA_SAS_Inp, mlib_ImageBlend_DA_ZERO_Inp, mlib_ImageBlend_OMDA_DA_Inp, mlib_ImageBlend_OMDA_DC_Inp, mlib_ImageBlend_OMDA_OMDA_Inp, mlib_ImageBlend_OMDA_OMDC_Inp, mlib_ImageBlend_OMDA_OMSA_Inp, mlib_ImageBlend_OMDA_ONE_Inp, mlib_ImageBlend_OMDA_SA_Inp, mlib_ImageBlend_OMDA_SAS_Inp, mlib_ImageBlend_OMDA_ZERO_Inp, mlib_ImageBlend_OMSA_DA_Inp, mlib_ImageBlend_OMSA_DC_Inp, mlib_ImageBlend_OMSA_OMDA_Inp, mlib_ImageBlend_OMSA_OMDC_Inp, mlib_ImageBlend_OMSA_OMSA_Inp, mlib_ImageBlend_OMSA_ONE_Inp, mlib_ImageBlend_OMSA_SA_Inp, mlib_ImageBlend_OMSA_SAS_Inp, mlib_ImageBlend_OMSA_ZERO_Inp, mlib_ImageBlend_OMSC_DA_Inp, mlib_ImageBlend_OMSC_DC_Inp, mlib_ImageBlend_OMSC_OMDA_Inp, mlib_ImageBlend_OMSC_OMDC_Inp, mlib_ImageBlend_OMSC_OMSA_Inp, mlib_ImageBlend_OMSC_ONE_Inp, mlib_ImageBlend_OMSC_SA_Inp, mlib_ImageBlend_OMSC_SAS_Inp, mlib_ImageBlend_OMSC_ZERO_Inp, mlib_ImageBlend_ONE_DA_Inp, mlib_ImageBlend_ONE_DC_Inp, mlib_ImageBlend_ONE_OMDA_Inp, mlib_ImageBlend_ONE_OMDC_Inp, mlib_ImageBlend_ONE_OMSA_Inp, mlib_ImageBlend_ONE_ONE_Inp, mlib_ImageBlend_ONE_SA_Inp, mlib_ImageBlend_ONE_SAS_Inp, mlib_ImageBlend_ONE_ZERO_Inp, mlib_ImageBlend_SA_DA_Inp, mlib_ImageBlend_SA_DC_Inp, mlib_ImageBlend_SA_OMDA_Inp, mlib_ImageBlend_SA_OMDC_Inp, mlib_ImageBlend_SA_OMSA_Inp, mlib_ImageBlend_SA_ONE_Inp, mlib_ImageBlend_SA_SA_Inp, mlib_ImageBlend_SA_SAS_Inp, mlib_ImageBlend_SA_ZERO_Inp, mlib_ImageBlend_SC_DA_Inp, mlib_ImageBlend_SC_DC_Inp, mlib_ImageBlend_SC_OMDA_Inp, mlib_ImageBlend_SC_OMDC_Inp, mlib_ImageBlend_SC_OMSA_Inp, mlib_ImageBlend_SC_ONE_Inp, mlib_ImageBlend_SC_SA_Inp, mlib_ImageBlend_SC_SAS_Inp, mlib_ImageBlend_SC_ZERO_Inp, mlib_ImageBlend_ZERO_DA_Inp, mlib_ImageBlend_ZERO_DC_Inp, mlib_ImageBlend_ZERO_OMDA_Inp, mlib_ImageBlend_ZERO_OMDC_Inp, mlib_ImageBlend_ZERO_OMSA_Inp, mlib_ImageBlend_ZERO_ONE_Inp, mlib_ImageBlend_ZERO_SA_Inp, mlib_ImageBlend_ZERO_SAS_Inp, mlib_ImageBlend_ZERO_ZERO_Inp \- blending, in place
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_ImageBlend_BSRC1_BSRC2_Inp\fR(\fBmlib_image *\fR\fIsrc1dst\fR,
     \fBconst mlib_image *\fR\fIsrc2\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIcmask\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
This group of functions supports digital image composition. They are low-level, in-place, blending functions.
.sp
.LP
The image type must be \fBMLIB_BYTE\fR. The input and output images must contain three or four channels. For three-channel images, the alpha value is as if the alpha value is 1.
.sp
.LP
BSRC1 is one of the following: ZERO, ONE, SC, OMSC, DA, SA, OMDA, or OMSA. BSRC2 is one of the following: ZERO, ONE, DC, OMDC, DA, SA, OMDA, OMSA, or SAS.
.sp
.LP
The following are predefined blend factor types used in mediaLib image composition functions.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
/* image blend factors */
typedef enum {
    MLIB_BLEND_ZERO,
    MLIB_BLEND_ONE,
    MLIB_BLEND_DST_COLOR,
    MLIB_BLEND_SRC_COLOR,
    MLIB_BLEND_ONE_MINUS_DST_COLOR,
    MLIB_BLEND_ONE_MINUS_SRC_COLOR,
    MLIB_BLEND_DST_ALPHA,
    MLIB_BLEND_SRC_ALPHA,
    MLIB_BLEND_ONE_MINUS_DST_ALPHA,
    MLIB_BLEND_ONE_MINUS_SRC_ALPHA,
    MLIB_BLEND_SRC_ALPHA_SATURATE
} mlib_blend;
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
See the following table for the definitions of the blend factors.
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab();
cw(2.97i) cw(1.85i) cw(.67i) 
lw(2.97i) lw(1.85i) lw(.67i) 
.
TypeBlend Factor [*]Abbr.
_
MLIB_BLEND_ZERO(0,0,0,0)ZERO
MLIB_BLEND_ONE(1,1,1,1)ONE
MLIB_BLEND_DST_COLOR(Rd,Gd,Bd,Ad)DC
MLIB_BLEND_SRC_COLOR(Rs,Gs,Bs,As)SC
MLIB_BLEND_ONE_MINUS_DST_COLOR(1,1,1,1)-(Rd,Gd,Bd,Ad)OMDC
MLIB_BLEND_ONE_MINUS_SRC_COLOR(1,1,1,1)-(Rs,Gs,Bs,As)OMSC
MLIB_BLEND_DST_ALPHA(Ad,Ad,Ad,Ad)DA
MLIB_BLEND_SRC_ALPHA(As,As,As,As)SA
MLIB_BLEND_ONE_MINUS_DST_ALPHA(1,1,1,1)-(Ad,Ad,Ad,Ad)OMDA
MLIB_BLEND_ONE_MINUS_SRC_ALPHA(1,1,1,1)-(As,As,As,As)OMSA
MLIB_BLEND_SRC_ALPHA_SATURATE(f,f,f,1)SAS
.TE

.sp
.LP
[*]: The components of the first source image pixel are (Rd,Gd,Bd,Ad), and the components of the second source pixel are (Rs,Gs,Bs,As). Function f = min(As,1-Ad). The first source image is also the destination image.
.sp
.LP
The blending formula for in-place processing is:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
Cd = Cd*D + Cs*S
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
where Cd is the destination pixel (Rd,Gd,Bd,Ad), Cs is the source pixel (Rs,Gs,Bs,As), and D and S are the blend factors for the destination and source, respectively.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
Each of the functions takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIsrc1dst\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Pointer to the first source and the destination image.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIsrc2\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Pointer to the second source image.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIcmask\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Channel mask to indicate the alpha channel. Each bit of the mask represents a channel in the image. The channel corresponding to the 1 bit is the alpha channel. cmask must be either 0x01 or 0x08.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Each of the functions returns \fBMLIB_SUCCESS\fR if successful. Otherwise it returns \fBMLIB_FAILURE\fR.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBmlib_ImageBlend_BSRC1_BSRC2\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageComposite\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageComposite_Inp\fR(3MLIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
