'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved 
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH mlib_VideoAddBlock_U8_S16 3MLIB "2 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_VideoAddBlock_U8_S16 \- adds motion-compensated 8x8 block to the current block
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_VideoAddBlock_U8_S16\fR(\fBmlib_u8 *\fR\fIcurr_block\fR, 
     \fBconst mlib_s16 *\fR\fImc_block\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIstride\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBmlib_VideoAddBlock_U8_S16()\fR function performs additions of prediction and coefficient data. In other words, the function adds a motion-compensated 8x8 block to the current block. The stride applies to the current block.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The function takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIcurr_block\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
Pointer to the current block. curr_block must be 8-byte aligned.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fImc_block\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
Pointer to an 8x8 motion-compensated block (prediction data). mc_block must be 8-byte aligned.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIstride\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
Stride, in bytes, between adjacent rows in the current block. stride must be a multiple of eight.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The function returns \fBMLIB_SUCCESS\fR if successful. Otherwise it returns \fBMLIB_FAILURE\fR.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBmlib_VideoCopyRef_S16_U8\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoCopyRef_S16_U8_16x16\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoCopyRef_U8_U8_16x16\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoCopyRefAve_U8_U8_16x16\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoH263OverlappedMC_S16_U8\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoH263OverlappedMC_U8_U8\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoInterpAveX_U8_U8\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoInterpAveX_U8_U8_16x16\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoInterpAveXY_U8_U8\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoInterpAveXY_U8_U8_16x16\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoInterpAveY_U8_U8\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoInterpAveY_U8_U8_16x16\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoInterpX_S16_U8\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoInterpX_S16_U8_16x16\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoInterpX_U8_U8\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoInterpXY_S16_U8\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoInterpXY_S16_U8_16x16\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoInterpXY_U8_U8\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoInterpXY_U8_U8_16x16\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoInterpY_S16_U8\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoInterpY_S16_U8_16x16\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoInterpY_U8_U8\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoInterpY_U8_U8_16x16\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoP64Decimate_U8_U8\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoP64Loop_S16_U8\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoP64Loop_U8_U8\fR(3MLIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
