'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved 
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH mlib_ImageLookUp_Inp 3MLIB "2 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_ImageLookUp_Inp \- table lookup, in place
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_ImageLookUp_Inp\fR(\fBmlib_image *\fR\fIsrcdst\fR, \fBconst void **\fR\fItable\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBmlib_ImageLookUp_Inp()\fR function maps the source image to the destination image, in place, by using the user-specified lookup table.
.sp
.LP
The following equation is used:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
srcdst[x][y][i] = table[i][srcdst[x][y][i]]
.fi
.in -2

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The function takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIsrcdst\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
Pointer to first source and destination image.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fItable\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
Pointer to lookup table. The data type of the lookup table is the same as the destination image. The number of entries in the lookup table is determined by the type of the input image. The format of the lookup table is:
.sp
\fBtable[channel][index]\fR
.sp
The \fBMLIB_BYTE\fR type entries are indexed from 0 to 255. The \fBMLIB_SHORT\fR type entries are indexed from -32768 to -1, then from 0 to 32767. The \fBMLIB_USHORT\fR type entries are indexed from 0 to 65535. The \fBMLIB_INT\fR type entries are indexed from -2147483648 to -1, and then from 0 to 2147483647.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The function returns \fBMLIB_SUCCESS\fR if successful. Otherwise it returns \fBMLIB_FAILURE\fR.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBmlib_ImageLookUp\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageLookUp2\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_ImageLookUpMask\fR(3MLIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
