'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved 
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH mlib_VideoInterpX_S16_U8_16x16 3MLIB "2 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_VideoInterpX_S16_U8_16x16, mlib_VideoInterpX_S16_U8_16x8, mlib_VideoInterpX_S16_U8_8x16, mlib_VideoInterpX_S16_U8_8x8, mlib_VideoInterpX_S16_U8_8x4 \- half-pixel interpolation in the X direction
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_VideoInterpX_S16_U8_16x16\fR(\fBmlib_s16 *\fR\fImc_block\fR,
     \fBconst mlib_u8 *\fR\fIref_block\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIfrm_stride\fR,
     \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIfld_stride\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_VideoInterpX_S16_U8_16x8\fR(\fBmlib_s16 *\fR\fImc_block\fR,
     \fBconst mlib_u8 *\fR\fIref_block\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIfrm_stride\fR,
     \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIfld_stride\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_VideoInterpX_S16_U8_8x16\fR(\fBmlib_s16 *\fR\fImc_block\fR,
     \fBconst mlib_u8 *\fR\fIref_block\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIfrm_stride\fR,
     \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIfld_stride\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_VideoInterpX_S16_U8_8x8\fR(\fBmlib_s16 *\fR\fImc_block\fR,
     \fBconst mlib_u8 *\fR\fIref_block\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIfrm_stride\fR,
     \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIfld_stride\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_VideoInterpX_S16_U8_8x4\fR(\fBmlib_s16 *\fR\fImc_block\fR,
     \fBconst mlib_u8 *\fR\fIref_block\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIfrm_stride\fR,
     \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIfld_stride\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Each of these functions performs half-pixel interpolation in the X direction for a reference block of data type mlib_u8 and a current block of data type mlib_s16. In this mode, the output of this function must be added to the IDCT output to reconstruct the block in the current frame. Thus, the stride applies only to the input reference block.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
Each of the functions takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fImc_block\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
Pointer to the motion-compensated reference block. mc_block must be 8-byte aligned.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIref_block\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
Pointer to the reference block.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIfrm_stride\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
Stride, in bytes, between adjacent rows in a frame in the reference block. frm_stride must be a multiple of eight.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIfld_stride\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
Stride, in bytes, between adjacent rows in a field in the reference block. fld_stride must be a multiple of eight.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Each of the functions returns \fBMLIB_SUCCESS\fR if successful. Otherwise it returns \fBMLIB_FAILURE\fR.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBmlib_VideoAddBlock_U8_S16\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoCopyRef_S16_U8\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoCopyRef_S16_U8_16x16\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoCopyRef_U8_U8\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoCopyRef_U8_U8_16x16\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoCopyRefAve_U8_U8\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoCopyRefAve_U8_U8_16x16\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoH263OverlappedMC_S16_U8\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoH263OverlappedMC_U8_U8\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoInterpAveX_U8_U8\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoInterpAveX_U8_U8_16x16\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoInterpAveXY_U8_U8\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoInterpAveXY_U8_U8_16x16\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoInterpAveY_U8_U8\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoInterpAveY_U8_U8_16x16\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoInterpX_S16_U8\fR(3MLIB), mlib_VideoInterpX_S16_U8_16x16(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoInterpX_U8_U8\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoInterpXY_S16_U8\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoInterpXY_U8_U8\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoInterpXY_U8_U8_16x16\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoInterpY_S16_U8\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoInterpY_S16_U8_16x16\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoInterpY_U8_U8\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoInterpY_U8_U8_16x16\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoP64Decimate_U8_U8\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoP64Loop_S16_U8\fR(3MLIB), \fBmlib_VideoP64Loop_U8_U8\fR(3MLIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
