'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved 
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH mlib_VideoColorBlendABGR 3MLIB "2 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_VideoColorBlendABGR, mlib_VideoColorBlendABGR_ResetAlpha \- image blend
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBvoid\fR \fBmlib_VideoColorBlendABGR\fR(\fBmlib_u32 *\fR\fIdst\fR,
     \fBconst mlib_u32 *\fR\fIsrc1\fR,\fBconst mlib_u32 *\fR\fIsrc2\fR,
     \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIsrc1_w\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIsrc1_h\fR,
     \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIsrc2_w\fR,\fBmlib_s32\fR \fIsrc2_h\fR,
     \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIsrc2_x\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIsrc2_y\fR,
     \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIdst_lb\fR,\fBmlib_s32\fR \fIsrc1_lb\fR,
     \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIsrc2_lb\fR, \fBmlib_blend\fR \fIsrc1_blend\fR,
     \fBmlib_blend\fR \fIsrc2_blend\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBmlib_VideoColorBlendABGR_ResetAlpha\fR(\fBmlib_u32 *\fR\fIdst\fR,
     \fBconst mlib_u32 *\fR\fIsrc1\fR,\fBconst mlib_u32 *\fR\fIsrc2\fR,
     \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIsrc1_w\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIsrc1_h\fR,
     \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIsrc2_w\fR,\fBmlib_s32\fR \fIsrc2_h\fR, 
     \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIsrc2_x\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIsrc2_y\fR,
     \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIdst_lb\fR, \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIsrc1_lb\fR,
     \fBmlib_s32\fR \fIsrc2_lb\fR, \fBmlib_blend\fR \fIsrc1_blend\fR,
     \fBmlib_blend\fR \fIsrc2_blend\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The functions use the following equation for blending images:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
  dst = (src1 * src1_blend) + (src2 * src2_blend)
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The two multi-banded source images (src1 and src2) are blended together and stored in the destination image (dst). The image buffers pointed to by dst, src1, and src2 contain 4-banded ABGR images, 8 bits per component. src1_w and src1_h are the dimensions of the src1 input buffer. src2_w and src2_h are the dimensions of the src2 input buffer. The output buffer must be at least as large as the src1 input buffer. src2_x and src2_y are the offset of the src2 input buffer relative to src1. Where pixels in src2 overlap pixels in src1, the pixels are blended. Pixels in src1 which are outside of src2 are copied into dst. Pixels in the dst image outside of src1 are left unchanged. src1_blend specifies the blend function to be applied to the pixels of src1 image and src2_blend specifies the blend function to be applied to the pixels of src2.
.sp
.LP
Possible blend functions are:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
  MLIB_BLEND_ZERO
  MLIB_BLEND_ONE
  MLIB_BLEND_SRC_ALPHA
  MLIB_BLEND_ONE_MINUS_SRC_ALPHA
  MLIB_BLEND_DST_ALPHA
  MLIB_BLEND_ONE_MINUS_DST_ALPHA
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
MLIB_BLEND_SRC_ALPHA is the alpha component of image src2 scaled to the range 0.0 to 1.0. MLIB_BLEND_DST_ALPHA is the alpha component of image src1 scaled to the range 0.0 to 1.0. All pixel components are treated as unsigned 8-bit quantities and the output pixel component values are clamped to the range 0 to 255.
.sp
.LP
For the \fBmlib_VideoColorBlendABGR_ResetAlpha()\fR function,  the alpha value of every pixel in destination image is set to 0 after blending is complete.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
Each of the functions takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIdst\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
Pointer to output image.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIsrc1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
Pointer to 1st input image.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIsrc2\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
Pointer to 2nd input image.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIsrc1_w\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
src1 image width in pixels.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIsrc1_h\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
src1 image height in rows.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIsrc2_w\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
src2 image width in pixels.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIsrc2_h\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
src2 image height in rows.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIsrc2_x\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
src2 horizontal displacement (in pixels), relative to the upper-left corner of src1.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIsrc2_y\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
src2 vertical displacement (in rows), relative to the upper-left corner of src1.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIdst_lb\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
Linebytes for output image.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIsrc1_lb\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
Linebytes for 1st input image.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIsrc2_lb\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
Linebytes for 2nd input image.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIsrc1_blend\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
Blend function for src1 image.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIsrc2_blend\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
Blend function for src2 image.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
None.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBmlib_VideoColorBlendABGR_Inp\fR(3MLIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
